[{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/10\/business\/treasury-auctions-set-for-this-week.html","body":"The Treasury\u2019s schedule of financing this week includes Monday\u2019s regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.09 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.13 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.06 percent. The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week: MONDAY Florida Department of Transportation, $295 million of debt securities. Competitive. TUESDAY Virginia Housing Development Authority, $560 million of revenue bonds. Competitive. WEDNESDAY Cherry Creek, Colo., Independent School District, $250 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. THURSDAY Alpine, Utah, Board of Education, $65.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK Adams County, Colo., School District, $63 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. Stifel, Nicolaus. Atlantic City, $95 million of tax appeal refinancing bonds. Citigroup Global Markets. California Pollution Control Financing Authority, $781.4 million of water furnishing revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities. Colorado Regional Transportation District, $466.3 million of sales tax revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets. Connecticut Housing Finance Authority, $79 million of housing mortgage finance program bonds. Citigroup Global Markets. Connecticut, $625 million of special tax transportation and infrastructure bonds. RBC Capital Markets. Corpus Christi, Tex., $155 million of utility system refinancing bonds. Loop Capital Markets. Delaware River Port Authority, $156.7 million of port authority project refinancing bonds. RBC Capital Markets. Glendale, Ariz., $230 million of excise tax revenue refinancing bonds. Wells Fargo Securities. Harlandale, Tex., Independent School District, $50.7 million of unlimited tax refinancing bonds. Loop Capital Markets. Iowa Finance Authority, $1.2 billion of disaster area revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets. Lafayette, La., $154.8 million of revenue refinancing bonds. Raymond James. Michigan, $96 million of University of Michigan debt securities. Wells Fargo Securities. New York City, $850 million of general obligation bonds. Citigroup Global Markets. New York Housing Finance Agency, $91.5 million of affordable housing revenue bonds. Ramirez. New York Metropolitan Opera, $100 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley. New York Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, $638 million of bridge and tunnel revenue bonds. Jefferies. North Miami Beach, $65 million of utility system refinancing revenue bonds. Bank of America. Oklahoma, $51.5 million of hospital revenue refinancing bonds. FirstSouthwest. Overland Park, Kan., $64 million of special obligation revenue bonds. Stifel, Nicolaus. Pennsylvania, $118.3 million of airport system revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs. Philadelphia Industrial Development Authority, $298.7 million of city service agreement refinancing revenue bonds. Barclays Capital. Tampa, Fla., Hillsborough County Expressway Authority, $341.5 million of revenue refinancing bonds. Bank of America. Tampa, Fla., Hillsborough County Expressway Authority, $113.2 million of revenue refinancing bonds. Bank of America. New York Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, $266.3 million of bridge and tunnel general revenue bonds. Jefferies. Virginia Industrial Development Authority, $77 million of health care revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley. Virginia, $293.4 million of toll road revenue bonds. Bank of America. Virginia, $344.8 million of wastewater revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities. Yonkers, N.Y., $102.2 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. Sterne, Agee & Leach."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/10\/us\/10iht-letter10.html","body":"WASHINGTON \u2014 The fears that big money would corrupt the U.S. political process in 2012 were not realized, the conventional wisdom says. The fat cats, unshackled by Supreme Court and lower court decisions, were not able to buy the presidency or the Senate.True. It also misses the point. About $6 billion was spent on the campaign, and outside groups poured $1.3 billion into political races, according to data from the Federal Election Commission and the Center for Responsive Politics. Supporters of the Citizens United ruling and other campaign-finance cases dismissed the concerns about corruption, contending that more money in elections would increase voter participation and turnout and enhance voters\u2019 knowledge about the candidates and important issues. Actually, even though considerably more money was spent this year than four years ago, turnout in the general election was down a little. Even in some of the most competitive battleground states like Ohio, where both sides poured in cash, turnout decreased. And the higher turnout in some other states was due more to the political infrastructure and ground game than the money the outside groups spent on the airwaves. During the autumn campaign, dozens of voters in those states told me that the carpet bombing of political television commercials caused them to turn off their televisions. The outpouring of money was pronounced in the Republican primaries, and turnout did not soar there, either, even though there was not a real competing Democratic contest. One irony was that the \u201csuper PAC\u201d backing Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, devastated his opponents in the primaries, but in the general election, it was a super PAC backing President Barack Obama, with its early attacks on Mr. Romney\u2019s private-equity background, that was more effective. Did the record amounts of money inform and edify voters? It would be hard to find a serious Republican or Democrat who argues it did. Most insidious is the corrosive corruption of big money. This is a reality that the ruling\u2019s backers in the Supreme Court majority \u2014 none of whom had to run for office \u2014 tried to play down. Do they believe that the Texas billionaire Harold Simmons \u2014 who could gain a lot more money with a favorable Nuclear Regulatory Commission decision permitting his West Texas dump site to accept depleted uranium \u2014 contributed $27 million to Mr. Romney and other Republicans only in the interest of good government? The Republicans\u2019 biggest sugar daddy, the Las Vegas casino magnate Sheldon Adelson, forked over $90 million in this cycle. The Huffington Post reported that Mr. Adelson was in Washington last week to meet Republican members of Congress, possibly to discuss changes to the anti-bribery Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. His company is under investigation by the Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission for possible violations of the law by his casinos in Macau. On the Democratic side, there are reports that Mr. Obama\u2019s next ambassador to Britain \u2014 or perhaps France \u2014 will be Anna Wintour, the Vogue editor whose chief qualifications appear to be that she held at least three big fund-raisers for the president and, as a top bundler, raked in more than $2.7 million for his campaign. Correctives to the Citizens United ruling are difficult. The House minority leader, Nancy Pelosi, is pushing a constitutional amendment to overturn the decision. That is not going to happen: Such an effort has the support of almost no Republicans and requires approval from two-thirds of the Congress and three-fourths of the states. Two House Democrats, Chris Van Hollen of Maryland and David E. Price of North Carolina, are pushing a measure that would match small contributions with government money. This solution would be much cheaper for taxpayers than relying on special interests, but it is a tough slog in the current Washington climate. They also are pushing for greater transparency when it comes to the fiction that candidate super PACs are distinct from the candidate\u2019s campaign. And Mr. Van Hollen would end the secret contributions now permissible under Federal Election Commission rules and require complete disclosure. These proposals meet the Supreme Court\u2019s standards. A test of whether the measures go anywhere is whether they can garner some Republican support; advocates are waiting to see whether Senator John McCain of Arizona, a onetime champion of campaign-finance reform, will rekindle his reformer\u2019s zeal. The bankruptcy of the money-driven system was evident in the amount of time the presidential candidates spent fund-raising. In the three weeks after the Republican National Convention, Mr. Romney held 12 rallies, three news conferences and 18 fund-raisers in places like mansions overlooking Biscayne Bay in Florida and a Las Vegas steakhouse where Mr. Adelson had a front-row seat. It was at a fund-raiser, which he thought was private, as most were, that Mr. Romney made his infamous comment about the 47 percent of Americans who \u201cbelieve they are victims,\u201d and \u201cpay no income tax.\u201d Mr. Obama hustled almost as much, taking time away from governing and campaigning. Perhaps spending so much time in such opulent surroundings reinforced the president\u2019s view that the rich can afford to pay higher taxes."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/10\/us\/10iht-educbriefs10.html","body":"Report shows mismatch between jobs and graduatesThe McKinsey Center for Government is scheduled to release its latest report on education and employment in alive Web feed on Monday. The online discussion, which will begin at 9 a.m. Eastern Standard Time, will include panelists from Bogot\u00e1, Dubai, Geneva, New Delhi and Washington. They will address a predicament that involves recent graduates as well as recruiters: 75 million young people are unemployed, and yet many employers say they cannot find skilled workers. According to the report, about half of young graduates are \u201cnot sure that their post-secondary education has improved their chances of finding a job.\u201d On the other hand, 39 percent of employers blamed a shortage of skilled workers for their difficulty in filling entry-level positions. Academic institutions, which are traditionally the link between students and employers, appear to be the most out-of-touch with workplace realities and are overconfident about the skills they provide. According to the report, 72 percent of educational institutions felt that their graduates were ready for the job market, but only 42 percent of employers agreed. QS names M.B.A. programs most valued by employers QS, widely known as one of leading publishers of university rankings, has named the 200 M.B.A. programs that are most valued by employers. Of the 39 \u201cElite Global\u201d institutions selected for the report, which was released last week, 22 were from North America, 14 from Europe and 3 from the Asia-Pacific region. Harvard was the top U.S. choice. Insead, a business school that has campuses in France and Singapore, was top-ranked in both Europe and Asia. London Business School was also among the top three M.B.A. programs chosen by recruiters. Among graduates of those \u201celite\u201d schools, those in Europe earned an average of $109,300 a year, compared with $101,100 in North America. But recruiters felt that U.S. business schools were better at teaching specialized subjects. The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania led in teaching finance; the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University in Illinois in teaching marketing; and the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management in teaching information management. According to the report, the most academically qualified students are from India. The Indian Institute of Management Bangalore and Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad reported the highest GMAT scores. Greek universities consider merging some departments A petition has been circulating at the University of Patras to protest a plan to merge its humanities departments with those of the University of the Peloponnese, part of cost-cutting measures in Greece, according to a copy of the petition obtained by the International Herald Tribune. The Ministry of Education is expected to announce a decision on the matter Saturday. Higher education in Asia is topic of online discussion The Asian Development Bank will hold a live online discussion called \u201cHigher Education in Asia: Is It Still a Public Good?\u201d Jouko Sarvi, who coordinates the bank\u2019s education-related policy and strategy, will speak to the online public on Friday starting at 2 p.m. in Manila, or 6 a.m. U.T.C."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/10\/opinion\/krugman-robots-and-robber-barons.html","body":"The American economy is still, by most measures, deeply depressed. But corporate profits are at a record high. How is that possible? It\u2019s simple: profits have surged as a share of national income, while wages and other labor compensation are down. The pie isn\u2019t growing the way it should \u2014 but capital is doing fine by grabbing an ever-larger slice, at labor\u2019s expense.Wait \u2014 are we really back to talking about capital versus labor? Isn\u2019t that an old-fashioned, almost Marxist sort of discussion, out of date in our modern information economy? Well, that\u2019s what many people thought; for the past generation discussions of inequality have focused overwhelmingly not on capital versus labor but on distributional issues between workers, either on the gap between more- and less-educated workers or on the soaring incomes of a handful of superstars in finance and other fields. But that may be yesterday\u2019s story. More specifically, while it\u2019s true that the finance guys are still making out like bandits \u2014 in part because, as we now know, some of them actually are bandits \u2014 the wage gap between workers with a college education and those without, which grew a lot in the 1980s and early 1990s, hasn\u2019t changed much since then. Indeed, recent college graduates had stagnant incomes even before the financial crisis struck. Increasingly, profits have been rising at the expense of workers in general, including workers with the skills that were supposed to lead to success in today\u2019s economy. Why is this happening? As best as I can tell, there are two plausible explanations, both of which could be true to some extent. One is that technology has taken a turn that places labor at a disadvantage; the other is that we\u2019re looking at the effects of a sharp increase in monopoly power. Think of these two stories as emphasizing robots on one side, robber barons on the other. About the robots: there\u2019s no question that in some high-profile industries, technology is displacing workers of all, or almost all, kinds. For example, one of the reasons some high-technology manufacturing has lately been moving back to the United States is that these days the most valuable piece of a computer, the motherboard, is basically made by robots, so cheap Asian labor is no longer a reason to produce them abroad. In a recent book, \u201cRace Against the Machine,\u201d M.I.T.\u2019s Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee argue that similar stories are playing out in many fields, including services like translation and legal research. What\u2019s striking about their examples is that many of the jobs being displaced are high-skill and high-wage; the downside of technology isn\u2019t limited to menial workers. Still, can innovation and progress really hurt large numbers of workers, maybe even workers in general? I often encounter assertions that this can\u2019t happen. But the truth is that it can, and serious economists have been aware of this possibility for almost two centuries. The early-19th-century economist David Ricardo is best known for the theory of comparative advantage, which makes the case for free trade; but the same 1817 book in which he presented that theory also included a chapter on how the new, capital-intensive technologies of the Industrial Revolution could actually make workers worse off, at least for a while \u2014 which modern scholarship suggests may indeed have happened for several decades. What about robber barons? We don\u2019t talk much about monopoly power these days; antitrust enforcement largely collapsed during the Reagan years and has never really recovered. Yet Barry Lynn and Phillip Longman of the New America Foundation argue, persuasively in my view, that increasing business concentration could be an important factor in stagnating demand for labor, as corporations use their growing monopoly power to raise prices without passing the gains on to their employees. I don\u2019t know how much of the devaluation of labor either technology or monopoly explains, in part because there has been so little discussion of what\u2019s going on. I think it\u2019s fair to say that the shift of income from labor to capital has not yet made it into our national discourse. Yet that shift is happening \u2014 and it has major implications. For example, there is a big, lavishly financed push to reduce corporate tax rates; is this really what we want to be doing at a time when profits are surging at workers\u2019 expense? Or what about the push to reduce or eliminate inheritance taxes; if we\u2019re moving back to a world in which financial capital, not skill or education, determines income, do we really want to make it even easier to inherit wealth? As I said, this is a discussion that has barely begun \u2014 but it\u2019s time to get started, before the robots and the robber barons turn our society into something unrecognizable."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/10\/business\/banks-face-a-huge-reckoning-in-the-mortgage-mess.html","body":"The nation\u2019s largest banks are facing a fresh torrent of lawsuits asserting that they sold shoddy mortgage securities that imploded during the financial crisis, potentially adding significantly to the tens of billions of dollars the banks have already paid to settle other cases.Regulators, prosecutors, investors and insurers have filed dozens of new claims against Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, Citigroup and others, related to more than $1 trillion worth of securities backed by residential mortgages. Estimates of potential costs from these cases vary widely, but some in the banking industry fear they could reach $300 billion if the institutions lose all of the litigation. Depending on the final price tag, the costs could lower profits and slow the economic recovery by weakening the banks\u2019 ability to lend just as the housing market is showing signs of life. The banks are battling on three fronts: with prosecutors who accuse them of fraud, with regulators who claim that they duped investors into buying bad mortgage securities, and with investors seeking to force them to buy back the soured loans. \u201cWe are at an all-time high for this mortgage litigation,\u201d said Christopher J. Willis, a lawyer with Ballard Spahr, which handles securities and consumer litigation. Efforts by the banks to limit their losses could depend on the outcome of one of the highest-stakes lawsuits to date \u2014 the $200 billion case that the Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees the housing twins Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, filed against 17 banks last year, claiming that they duped the mortgage finance giants into buying shaky securities. Last month, lawyers for some of the nation\u2019s largest banks descended on a federal appeals court in Manhattan to make their case that the agency had waited too long to sue. A favorable ruling could overturn a decision by Judge Denise L. Cote, who is presiding over the litigation and has so far rejected virtually every defense raised by the banks, and would be cheered in bank boardrooms. It could also allow the banks to avoid federal housing regulators\u2019 claims. At the same time, though, some major banks are hoping to reach a broad settlement with housing agency officials, according to several people with knowledge of the talks. Although the negotiations are at a very tentative stage, the banks are broaching a potential cease-fire. As the housing market and the nation\u2019s economy slowly recover from the 2008 financial crisis, Wall Street is vulnerable on several fronts, including tighter regulations assembled in the aftermath of the crisis and continuing investigations into possible rigging of a major international interest rate. But the mortgage lawsuits could be the most devastating and expensive threat, bank analysts say. \u201cAll of Wall Street has essentially refused to deal with the real costs of the litigation that they are up against,\u201d said Christopher Whalen, a senior managing director at Tangent Capital Partners. \u201cThe real price tag is terrifying.\u201d Anticipating painful costs from mortgage litigation, the five major sellers of mortgage-backed securities set aside $22.5 billion as of June 30 just to cushion themselves against demands that they repurchase soured loans from trusts, according to an analysis by Natoma Partners. But in the most extreme situation, the litigation could empty even more well-stocked reserves and weigh down profits as the banks are forced to pay penance for the subprime housing crisis, according to several senior officials in the industry. There is no industrywide tally of how much banks have paid since the financial crisis to put the mortgage litigation behind them, but analysts say that future settlements will dwarf the payouts so far. That is because banks, for the most part, have settled only a small fraction of the lawsuits against them. JPMorgan Chase and Credit Suisse, for example, agreed last month to settle mortgage securities cases with the Securities and Exchange Commission for $417 million, but still face billions of dollars in outstanding claims. Bank of America is in the most precarious position, analysts say, in part because of its acquisition of the troubled subprime lender Countrywide Financial. Last year, Bank of America paid $2.5 billion to repurchase troubled mortgages from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and $1.6 billion to Assured Guaranty, which insured the shaky mortgage bonds. But in October, federal prosecutors in New York accused the bank of perpetrating a fraud through Countrywide by churning out loans at such a fast pace that controls were largely ignored. A settlement in that case could reach well beyond $1 billion because the Justice Department sued the bank under a law that could allow roughly triple the damages incurred by taxpayers. Bank of America\u2019s attempts to resolve some mortgage litigation with an umbrella settlement have stalled. In June 2011, the bank agreed to pay $8.5 billion to appease investors, including the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Pimco, that lost billions of dollars when the mortgage securities assembled by the bank went bad. But the settlement is in limbo after being challenged by investors. Kathy D. Patrick, the lawyer representing investors, has said she will set her sights on Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo next. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/10\/business\/economy\/fed-likely-to-sustain-bond-buying-program-to-stimulate-growth.html","body":"WASHINGTON \u2014 The Federal Reserve is widely expected to announce on Wednesday that it will continue buying Treasury securities to stimulate growth in the new year. The Fed\u2019s public declaration in September that it would buy bonds until the outlook for the labor market \u201cimproved substantially\u201d has cleared away much of the uncertainty and controversy that usually precedes such announcements. The economic recovery remains lackluster and millions are looking for work. But while some analysts question the central bank\u2019s ability to improve the situation, few doubt that the Fed, under its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, is determined to keep trying. Indeed, while Fed officials continue to warn that a failure to avert scheduled tax increases and spending cuts next year would overwhelm their efforts and plunge the economy back into recession, they have also said that even if Congress and the White House negotiate a compromise, the Fed\u2019s efforts would continue. \u201cI am not prepared to say we are remotely close to substantial improvement on the employment front,\u201d Dennis P. Lockhart, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, said in a recent speech. \u201cI expect that continued aggressive use of balance sheet monetary tools will be appropriate and justified by economic conditions for some time, even if fiscal cliff issues are properly addressed.\u201d The remarks were particularly significant because Mr. Lockhart is among the moderate members of the Federal Open Market Committee whose support Mr. Bernanke invested months in winning before starting the new policy. With the direction of policy clearly set, debate has turned to the details. The Fed, whose policy-making committee is meeting on Tuesday and Wednesday, still must determine what to buy and how much to spend, and officials continue to debate the best way to describe when the agency is likely to stop buying. In making those decisions, the Fed must balance its conviction that buying bonds reduces borrowing costs for businesses and consumers against concerns the purchases might disrupt financial markets or inhibit its control of inflation. Analysts say the immediate answer is likely to be more of the same. The Fed currently buys $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities and $45 billion of Treasury securities a month. Officials highlighted that $85 billion figure in September, and have indicated since that it remained their rough target. \u201cIt would be odd for them to disappoint the expectations that they have created themselves,\u201d Kris Dawsey of Goldman Sachs wrote in a note to clients predicting that the Fed would maintain both the dollar amount and the division. Other analysts have suggested the Fed might slightly decrease the total amount of purchases, to $80 billion, or increase the share of mortgage securities. The Fed is unlikely to announce a new timetable this week, analysts said. The committee has said that it does not plan to raise interest rates before the middle of 2015, and that it will stop buying bonds before it starts raising rates. Many officials on the 12-member committee \u2014 perhaps even the majority \u2014 would prefer to substitute economic objectives for guidance set by the calendar. The Fed\u2019s ability to reduce borrowing costs derives in part from persuading investors that interest rates will remain low. Telling investors how the economic situation must change in order to warrant a change in policy could be more convincing, and therefore more potent, than simply publishing an estimated endpoint, these officials say. But an account of the committee\u2019s previous meeting, in late October, showed that officials remained divided about which economic objectives to use. The most vocal proponent of focusing on economic goals, Charles L. Evans, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said last month that the Fed should declare its intent to keep short-term interest rates near zero until the unemployment rate fell below 6.5 percent, provided that the rate of inflation did not exceed 2.5 percent. \u201cI believe we have the ability to go even further in reassuring financial markets and the general public that policy will stay appropriately accommodative,\u201d Mr. Evans said in advocating the change during a speech in Toronto. Other officials have misgivings about placing such emphasis on any single economic indicator, or on the unemployment rate in particular. The discussions are moving slowly, in part because it is not clear the changes being contemplated would have significant benefits. The targets the Fed is considering closely resemble its own past practice, meaning the new thresholds would tend to reinforce rather than shift expectations. Lou Crandall, chief economist at the research firm Wrightson ICAP, noted in a recent analysis that the unemployment rate exceeded 7 percent in the mid-1980s and again in the early 1990s, and in both cases the Fed waited until the rate fell well into the 6 percent range before it began to raise interest rates. The relative complacency of Fed officials also reflects their judgment that the mortgage-bond purchases announced in September are working. Average interest rates on 30-year mortgages are at the lowest levels on record, averaging 3.35 percent in November, according to Freddie Mac\u2019s regular survey. \u201cThis is solid evidence that our policy has been and continues to be effective \u2014 though it is certainly not all-powerful in current circumstances,\u201d William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said last week. To continue the companion purchases of Treasury securities, the Fed will need to change its approach. It is now buying long-term securities with proceeds from the sale of short-term securities, but it is running out of inventory to sell. The most likely alternative is to create money by crediting the accounts of banks that sell bonds to the Fed, the same method now being used to buy mortgage bonds and also to finance earlier rounds of the Fed\u2019s so-called quantitative easing. The Fed has repeatedly overestimated the health of the economy and the impact of its efforts. This time, officials have promised to maintain their efforts even as the economy shows signs of improvement. But they are once again sounding notes of cautious optimism about the coming year \u2014 if Washington does not interfere. A budget deal reducing deficits in the long term, Mr. Bernanke said in November, \u201ccould help make the new year a very good one for the American economy.\u201d"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/10\/business\/economy\/economic-reports-for-the-week-of-dec-10.html","body":"ECONOMIC REPORTS Data scheduled to be released include the trade deficit for October and wholesale trade for October (Monday); import prices for November (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims, retail sales for November, the Producer Price Index for November and business inventories for October (Thursday); and the Consumer Price Index for November and industrial production for November (Friday). CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report quarterly earnings include Costco Wholesale (Wednesday); and Hovnanian Enterprises and Adobe Systems (Thursday). IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, the governor of the Bank of England, Mervyn King, will speak at the Economic Club of New York. Also Monday, a trial will begin in Boston in a lawsuit brought by the owners of Dragon Systems, the speech-recognition company, who contend that Goldman Sachs did not warn them about risky accounting practices that led to the bankruptcy of the rival to which they sold the company for stock. On Tuesday, the Senate Banking Committee will conduct a hearing about the Department of Housing and Urban Development\u2019s rental housing assistance programs, and the Agriculture Department will issue its monthly crop report. On Wednesday, the Federal Open Market Committee concludes a two-day meeting, and a House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the regulation of over-the-counter swaps markets under the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law. On Thursday, the House Financial Services Committee will conduct a hearing about the effect of the Volcker Rule on markets, businesses, investors and job creation; and a House Agriculture subcommittee will conduct a hearing about derivatives changes under the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law. On Friday, a lockup period will expire for 156 million shares of Facebook, and Elisse B. Walter will succeed Mary L. Schapiro as chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. OVERSEAS On Wednesday, European Union finance ministers will hold emergency talks about establishing a euro-area banking supervisor. On Thursday, euro-area finance ministers will meet to ratify an aid payment to Greece, and European Union leaders will begin a two-day summit meeting on the future of the bloc."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/10\/education\/florida-may-reduce-tuition-for-select-majors.html","body":"MIAMI \u2014 Rick Scott, businessman turned politician, campaigned for governor in 2010 with promises to run Florida like a successful business \u2014 more efficiency, lower costs, less hand-wringing and measurable results.He meant higher education, too, but until recently that meant mostly shrinking budgets. Now, looking for more value on the remaining dollars, Governor Scott and Republican lawmakers are prodding Florida\u2019s 12 state universities to find ways to steer students toward majors that are in demand in the job market. The message from Tallahassee could not be blunter: Give us engineers, scientists, health care specialists and technology experts. Do not worry so much about historians, philosophers, anthropologists and English majors. To nudge students toward job-friendly degrees, the governor\u2019s task force on higher education suggested recently that university tuition rates be frozen for three years for majors in \u201cstrategic areas,\u201d which would vary depending on supply and demand. An undergraduate student would pay less for a degree in engineering or biotechnology \u2014 whose classes are among the most expensive for universities \u2014 than for a degree in history or psychology. State financing, which has dropped drastically in the past five years, would be expected to make up the tuition gap. At the same time, Mr. Scott wants the state\u2019s 28 colleges (formerly called community colleges) to offer some of their four-year degrees for $10,000. That amount is $3,000 or so less than the typical cost. So far, several colleges are planning to take him up on the challenge, which would attract new students and encourage people to complete their degrees. The idea for a $10,000-degree originated last year with Gov. Rick Perry of Texas. In Florida, the challenge has been lauded by business groups. \u201cEvery business has to figure out how to make itself more efficient,\u201d Mr. Scott said when announcing the challenge at St. Petersburg College last month. \u201cThey\u2019ve got to use technology. They\u2019ve got to use the Internet, things like that. We can do the same thing with our state colleges.\u201d Universities cannot offer four-year degrees for $10,000 \u2014 their average is more than $24,000 \u2014 but they are being asked to spend their money more judiciously. They are also being asked to quantify their performances by, for example, figuring out which of their students actually get jobs after graduation. Dale A. Brill, the chairman of the governor\u2019s task force and a \u201cliberal arts guy,\u201d said universities needed to be realistic. Generous state financing is no longer an option, at least not in Florida. Universities, he said, need to be practical about the value of their degrees at a time when well-paying jobs are scarce, a position taken by a growing number of institutions and one that underscores the latest philosophical divide over education. \u201cThe higher education system needs to evolve with the economy,\u201d said Mr. Brill, the president of the Florida Chamber Foundation. \u201cPeople pay taxes expecting that the public good will be served to the greatest degree possible. We call that a return on investment.\u201d Florida\u2019s new Senate president, Don Gaetz, a Republican, agrees. He has said he wants \u201cto lash higher education to the realities and opportunities of the economy.\u201d But the shift toward market-based degrees and greater affordability after five years of budget cuts has its detractors. In a letter to the governor, Roberto Martinez, the vice chairman of the State Board of Education, which oversees state colleges, called it a \u201cvery bad idea.\u201d \u201cThe \u2018$10,000 Bachelor\u2019s Degree\u2019 is not a serious policy,\u201d he wrote. \u201cIt will be perceived as a gimmick pretending to be a policy used as a sound bite.\u201d At the University of Florida, the state\u2019s most prestigious campus, a group of history professors criticized the recommendation for tiered tuition and organized a protest petition. Liberal arts devotees across the state are signing it. The professors said the move would inevitably reduce the number of students who take humanities classes, which would further diminish financing for those departments. In the end, Florida universities with nationally prominent programs, like the one for Latin American history at the University of Florida, will lose coveted professors and their overall luster. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/10\/world\/europe\/social-democrats-formally-nominate-merkel-rival.html","body":"BERLIN \u2014 As if it weren\u2019t challenging enough to run against a chancellor viewed as Europe\u2019s most powerful leader, Angela Merkel\u2019s main rival in next year\u2019s national election has come under fire since his nomination for the nearly $1.7 million he earned from speaking fees in the past three years.But Peer Steinbr\u00fcck, who was formally nominated by the Social Democratic Party on Sunday to run for chancellor, demonstrated in a wide-ranging speech to party delegates that he was unwilling to let either hurdle hamper his campaign. He characterized Ms. Merkel as a dividing force who has isolated Germany from its European partners and whose policies have widened the rift between rich and poor. Mr. Steinbr\u00fcck is a 65-year-old economics expert who served as finance minister in Ms. Merkel\u2019s first government, in coalition with the Social Democrats from 2005 to 2009, and he rejected another such tie-up of the country\u2019s two main political parties. \u201cI am not available for a grand coalition,\u201d Mr. Steinbr\u00fcck said. \u201cI want Germany to find a new, social equality. I want change instead of stagnation.\u201d His biting humor and sharp wit were on display at a convention convened for the purpose of formally electing him as the party\u2019s candidate. But he also displayed a humble, more personal side, acknowledging the loss of support because of the scandal surrounding his private earnings. \u201cI thank you for bearing this burden for me and with me,\u201d he told the more than 580 delegates. \u201cI have not only had criticism from your ranks, but much solidarity \u2014 more than I ever thought I could expect.\u201d Long considered unpopular among Social Democratic women and the party\u2019s more traditional, working-class left wing, Mr. Steinbr\u00fcck reached out to them, emphasizing fair pay, social equality, education and increased regulation of financial markets as central issues for his campaign. It appeared to pay off, with more than 93 percent voting in his favor. \u201cEconomic policy is only good as long as it helps people,\u201d Mr. Steinbr\u00fcck said. \u201cThe market has to justify itself before democratic and social life, and not the other way around.\u201d Germany is one of the few European countries not to have had a change of government since the start of the sovereign debt crisis in 2008. Most recently, French voters swung to the left, ushering in a Socialist president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande. Whether Germans are ready to follow suit is unclear. In times of trouble, they have tended to avoid change, and Ms. Merkel is widely seen as having guarded German prosperity in the face of economic turbulence across Europe. A survey published last week showed the chancellor\u2019s ratings suffering a week after news broke that the second round of financial assistance to Greece would cost German taxpayers 700 million euros, or about $905 million. Analysts said they were not sure the Social Democrats\u2019 focus on social justice would be enough to unseat Ms. Merkel. \u201cThey found an issue that they can use to win points against the conservatives,\u201d said Karl-Rudolf Korte, a professor of political science at Duisburg-Essen University. \u201cWhether they can succeed in making it relevant in a year that will be more focused on security than justice will be the big question.\u201d"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/09\/us\/texas-campaign-contributions-blackout-serves-many-functions.html","body":"Ladies and gentlemen, close your checkbooks. Sunday starts the blackout on campaign contributions to Texas state officeholders, \u00a0 a period of pecuniary protection that will last until after the legislative session that begins in a month.The no-contributions period, which began in 1987, is intended to put a polite distance between the giving of political money and the casting of governmental votes \u2014 to erase the possibility of a Tuesday contribution turning into a Thursday favor or the possibility that an innocent juxtaposition might be seen the wrong way. It has proved remarkably difficult in the past to convince nonparticipants that the money and the voting are unrelated. During a 1989 special legislative session \u2014\u00a0there is no contributions blackout during a special session \u2014 the East Texas poultry tycoon Bo Pilgrim offered checks to nine senators on the Senate floor during a break in the proceedings. He left a blank after \u201cpay to the order of\u201d so the senators could write in the appropriate payee. The name of their political committees, for instance. Or whatever. Ronnie Earle, Travis County\u2019s top prosecutor at the time, told The Associated Press that he could not make a bribery case of Mr. Pilgrim\u2019s donation. \u201cIn Texas, it\u2019s almost impossible to bribe a public official as long as you report it,\u201d Mr. Earle said. The contributions blackout took a lot of excitement out of political finance in Texas, but the money still flows, just at other times and places. The blackout serves as a deadline: lawmakers who wanted to raise money before Father\u2019s Day had to do it by the end of the day Saturday. Lawmakers try to raise money now for a variety of reasons. Their accounts are depleted, relatively speaking, after the elections. Many of them supplement the salaries of some of their state employees out of their political accounts and pay their political staffs to remain in business. Some want to have the money in their accounts to caution potential competitors. Who wants to run against someone who already has enough money to finance a campaign? On the other side, lobbyists, trade groups and other contributors who wanted to show a little love to the Legislature had until that deadline to weigh in. Sites around Austin were bustling with fund-raisers during the last couple of weeks. They want to take care of their political friends. It\u2019s a busy and expensive time for some of them, but it gives everyone a chance to recharge the relationships they rely on between elections. The deadline also serves as the terminus of the political \u201clate train,\u201d the term for contributions given after an election to someone the donor opposed or ignored during the election season. After the election and before the blackout, late donors can get on the late train to reverse their transgressions\u00a0\u2014\u00a0to kiss and make up. The fund-raising flurry also serves as a measure of strength. When there is a serious race for speaker of the House, for instance, it\u2019s a time to spy, to see who is contributing to whom, to see how the interests and the members themselves are lining up. It\u2019s the political version of the rituals that take place before a high school prom, full of pairings, snubs, social moves, gaffes and surprises. In January, the numbers come out. Texas campaign finance laws don\u2019t require final election spending reports from candidates until mid-January; that is also when the candidates will show how much they have raised since Election Day and how much money they have on hand. The reports are public records of political health. Who has the most money going into a legislative session, and how does it compare with what their opponents have? Potential candidates for statewide office in 2014 will be able to see how the competition stacks up, where the money is coming from, who is formidable. The blackout doesn\u2019t apply to everyone \u2014\u00a0just the state officeholders. Anyone who wants to run but who is not in office now has six months to raise money without competition from the incumbents, and they do not have to report the results for their 2013 efforts until mid-July. Another reason for the pre-deadline rush: During the first half of the year, the challengers have the advantage. rramsey@texastribune.org"}][{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/09\/fashion\/extreme-obstacle-course-races-forge-a-bond-in-mud-and-guts.html","body":"BY Monday morning, Michael Cugini would be back at his desk at a major Wall Street firm, another high-powered cog in the engine of finance. There would be men on his left, men on his right, all yelling into their phones and scanning the stock ticker.But Mr. Cugini bore unseen scars beneath his crisp custom suit. Twenty-four hours earlier, Mr. Cugini (nickname Cujo) was shirtless, face down, crawling through a 40-foot-long pit of cold mud, while being electrified by low-hanging wires. He also scaled a 15-foot-high wall, ran 12 miles and underwent something called an Arctic Enema, in which he jumped into a Dumpster filled with ice water, dyed neon green, and swam under concertina wire. Two and a half hours after he began, Mr. Cugini crossed the finish line, bloody but unbowed. He had a Dos Equis to celebrate. \u201cThere\u2019s always a lot of moaning on Monday morning,\u201d said Mr. Cugini, 31, a small man with a bald head and a strong grip. \u201cAnd I just think, \u2018Come on, what did you do this weekend?\u2019\u00a0\u201d Mr. Cugini had company. About 25,700 others participated that October weekend in an ordeal in Englishtown, N.J., known as Tough Mudder, an extreme obstacle course that is becoming the macho sport of choice for Type A men (and some women) who find marathons too easy and triathlons meh. Started in 2010 by a Harvard Business School graduate, Tough Mudder has exploded onto the fitness scene, with 35 races this year in 4 countries and 660,000 participants to date. Next year, 55 events are scheduled for 5 countries. Along with other quasi-military obstacle courses like the Spartan Race and Warrior Dash, Tough Mudder is the new gantlet for body-conscious Gen Xers. Though the muddy details vary, each challenge consists of a 3- to 12-mile course spiked with cheekily named obstacles like Ball Shrinker. Rewards vary. There is neither a trophy nor a purse for Tough Mudder, only an orange headband. Spartan Race, on the other hand, gave away $500,000 in purse money this year. Beer is normally included with entrance fees, which range from $80 to $200. The common motivator could be called the Walter Mitty weekend-warrior complex. While the races draw a fair share of endurance athletes and ex-military, many of the muddiest, most avid, most agro participants hail from Wall Street. \u201cGoldman brings a massive team,\u201d said Will Dean, the 31-year-old founder of Tough Mudder. \u201cSo does Morgan Stanley.\u201d That they do makes sense since Mr. Dean tailored his sport for cubicle-bound masses yearning to breathe free. \u201cWhen we started Tough Mudder, we identified a few key demographics,\u201d he said. \u201cOne of them was the white-collar urban professional.\u201d FROM a distance, the Tough Mudder course at the Old Bridge Township Raceway Park looked more like a medieval battlefield than a 400-acre racetrack. Beefy figures, silhouetted against a frigid slate gray sky, faltered up steep hills. In the gravel parking lot, teams of men prepared for battle. Some stretched, others squeezed into compression shirts. One man, placing surgical tape on his chest, said fearfully, \u201cThis is going to be 9\/11 on my nipples.\u201d Held in late October, it was one of the last chances to qualify for the Toughest Mudder, an invitation-only championship race in November, and squads of men from the tristate area made the pilgrimage to Englishtown, a small New Jersey town of aluminum diners and gas stations. The chest thumping began before the first obstacle. Next to a cheesesteak stand, a barbershop was set up to dispense free mohawks. A chin-up bar was erected next to a chalkboard, where the highest scores were posted. Nearby, men warmed up by tossing kegs at a cardboard cutout of Fabio. The bonding intensified at the start line. From 8 a.m. onward, teams gathered in a gated corral on the racetrack, which was still sticky from burned tires, stamping their feet in the cold and jumping up and down in anticipation. Many wore matching T-shirts with team names like Mudlife Crisis and the STDS (short for \u201cSuper Tough Dudes\u201d). One shirt read, \u201cI don\u2019t get drunk, I get awesome.\u201d The fittest tended to go shirtless. With American flags fluttering overhead, a wiry announcer in a plaid cap and tight blue T-shirt lifted the mic. \u201cEverybody take a knee!\u201d he yelled, and everyone knelt. \u201cWe\u2019re going to test your fitness. Oo-rah!\u201d \u201cOo-rah!\u201d the crowd replied, using the traditional greeting of the Marine Corps. As the last note of \u201cThe Star-Spangled Banner\u201d sounded, a monster truck roared to life and the Tough Mudders chased after it, like a herd of lemmings clad in Under Armour. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/09\/us\/politics\/new-taxes-to-take-effect-to-fund-health-care-law.html","body":"WASHINGTON \u2014 For more than a year, politicians have been fighting over whether to raise taxes on high-income people. They rarely mention that affluent Americans will soon be hit with new taxes adopted as part of the 2010 health care law.The new levies, which take effect in January, include an increase in the payroll tax on wages and a tax on investment income, including interest, dividends and capital gains. The Obama administration proposed rules to enforce both last week. Affluent people are much more likely than low-income people to have health insurance, and now they will, in effect, help pay for coverage for many lower-income families. Among the most affluent fifth of households, those affected will see tax increases averaging $6,000 next year, economists estimate. To help finance Medicare, employees and employers each now pay a hospital insurance tax equal to 1.45 percent on all wages. Starting in January, the health care law will require workers to pay an additional tax equal to 0.9 percent of any wages over $200,000 for single taxpayers and $250,000 for married couples filing jointly. The new taxes on wages and investment income are expected to raise $318 billion over 10 years, or about half of all the new revenue collected under the health care law. Ruth M. Wimer, a tax lawyer at McDermott Will & Emery, said the taxes came with \u201ca shockingly inequitable marriage penalty.\u201d If a single man and a single woman each earn $200,000, she said, neither would owe any additional Medicare payroll tax. But, she said, if they are married, they would owe $1,350. The extra tax is 0.9 percent of their earnings over the $250,000 threshold. Since the creation of Social Security in the 1930s, payroll taxes have been levied on the wages of each worker as an individual. The new Medicare payroll is different. It will be imposed on the combined earnings of a married couple. Employers are required to withhold Social Security and Medicare payroll taxes from wages paid to employees. But employers do not necessarily know how much a worker\u2019s spouse earns and may not withhold enough to cover a couple\u2019s Medicare tax liability. Indeed, the new rules say employers may disregard a spouse\u2019s earnings in calculating how much to withhold. Workers may thus owe more than the amounts withheld by their employers and may have to make up the difference when they file tax returns in April 2014. If they expect to owe additional tax, the government says, they should make estimated tax payments, starting in April 2013, or ask their employers to increase the amount withheld from each paycheck. In the Affordable Care Act, the new tax on investment income is called an \u201cunearned income Medicare contribution.\u201d However, the law does not provide for the money to be deposited in a specific trust fund. It is added to the government\u2019s general tax revenues and can be used for education, law enforcement, farm subsidies or other purposes. Donald B. Marron Jr., the director of the Tax Policy Center, a joint venture of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution, said the burden of this tax would be borne by the most affluent taxpayers, with about 85 percent of the revenue coming from 1 percent of taxpayers. By contrast, the biggest potential beneficiaries of the law include people with modest incomes who will receive Medicaid coverage or federal subsidies to buy private insurance. Wealthy people and their tax advisers are already looking for ways to minimize the impact of the investment tax \u2014 for example, by selling stocks and bonds this year to avoid the higher tax rates in 2013. The new 3.8 percent tax applies to the net investment income of certain high-income taxpayers, those with modified adjusted gross incomes above $200,000 for single taxpayers and $250,000 for couples filing jointly. David J. Kautter, the director of the Kogod Tax Center at American University, offered this example. In 2013, John earns $160,000, and his wife, Jane, earns $200,000. They have some investments, earn $5,000 in dividends and sell some long-held stock for a gain of $40,000, so their investment income is $45,000. They owe 3.8 percent of that amount, or $1,710, in the new investment tax. And they owe $990 in additional payroll tax. The new tax on unearned income would come on top of other tax increases that might occur automatically next year if President Obama and Congress cannot reach an agreement in talks on the federal deficit and debt. If Congress does nothing, the tax rate on long-term capital gains, now 15 percent, will rise to 20 percent in January. Dividends will be treated as ordinary income and taxed at a maximum rate of 39.6 percent, up from the current 15 percent rate for most dividends. Under another provision of the health care law, consumers may find it more difficult to obtain a tax break for medical expenses. Taxpayers now can take an itemized deduction for unreimbursed medical expenses, to the extent that they exceed 7.5 percent of adjusted gross income. The health care law will increase the threshold for most taxpayers to 10 percent next year. The increase is delayed to 2017 for people 65 and older. In addition, workers face a new $2,500 limit on the amount they can contribute to flexible spending accounts used to pay medical expenses. Such accounts can benefit workers by allowing them to pay out-of-pocket expenses with pretax money. Taken together, this provision and the change in the medical expense deduction are expected to raise more than $40 billion of revenue over 10 years."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/09\/us\/politics\/obama-team-outlines-four-corporate-donor-packages-for-inauguration.html","body":"WASHINGTON \u2014 President Obama\u2019s finance team is offering corporations and other institutions that contribute $1 million exclusive access to an array of inaugural festivities, including tickets to a \u201cbenefactors reception,\u201d a children\u2019s concert, a candlelight celebration at the National Building Museum, two reserved parade bleacher seats and four tickets to the president\u2019s official inaugural ball.The offerings are detailed in an online inaugural fund-raising solicitation provided to The New York Times by an Obama fund-raiser. The document describes four packages that Mr. Obama\u2019s finance team can sell, with differing levels of access depending on the level of contribution. Individuals who contribute $250,000 will receive the same package as million-dollar \u201cinstitutional donors,\u201d which could include corporations, philanthropies, foundations and unions. The financing arrangements are a departure from Mr. Obama\u2019s policy in 2009, when he refused corporate donations altogether and capped individual contributions at $50,000. As in 2009, Mr. Obama will not be accepting money from lobbyists or political action committees. While taxpayers pay for inaugural events at the Capitol \u2014 the swearing-in ceremony and inaugural luncheon \u2014 the president must raise money from private donors for everything else, including the inaugural parade, ball and concerts. In 2009, Mr. Obama raised $53 million. The online solicitation, sent to donors by e-mail on Friday, described the different inaugural packages, each named for a president: Washington ($1 million from institutions and $250,000 from individuals); Adams ($500,000 from institutions and $150,000 from individuals); Jefferson ($250,000 from institutions and $75,000 from individuals); and Madison ($100,000 from institutions and $10,000 from individuals). Financing arrangements like these are typical for presidential inaugurals. To help pay for President George W. Bush\u2019s 2005 inaugural, dozens of companies, including Home Depot and Bank of America, contributed $250,000 apiece. But Mr. Obama\u2019s decision has drawn criticism from good-government advocates, who accuse him of abandoning his pledge to keep big money out of politics. John Wonderlich, policy director of the Sunlight Foundation, which advocates for openness in government, wrote on the group\u2019s blog that the decision \u201cprioritizes a lavish celebration over the integrity of the office,\u201d and that Mr. Obama was \u201cturning away from a principled approach to money in politics.\u201d The president\u2019s inaugural planners, however, have defended the decision, saying that museums, philanthropic organizations and service groups, like the Red Cross, all accept corporate money. And with Democratic donors feeling tapped out from an expensive presidential campaign, the planners concluded they needed to expand their fund-raising methods. The 2013 inaugural festivities will be smaller in scope than the huge celebration of 2009, which drew an estimated 1.8 million people to the capital. The inaugural committee has not announced a schedule for the 2013 events, and a committee aide said that no final decision had been made about the number of inaugural balls to be held. However, donors were told on a conference call on Friday that this time there would be only three official inaugural balls that the president and his wife would attend, according to one person who listened. In 2009, they attended 10 of them. And because Jan. 20, the constitutionally mandated date for the presidential swearing-in, falls on a Sunday this year, Mr. Obama will take his oath in private at the White House, and the public swearing-in ceremony and other events will be held on Jan. 21."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/09\/opinion\/sunday\/kristof-profiting-from-a-childs-illiteracy.html","body":"JACKSON, Ky.THIS is what poverty sometimes looks like in America: parents here in Appalachian hill country pulling their children out of literacy classes. Moms and dads fear that if kids learn to read, they are less likely to qualify for a monthly check for having an intellectual disability. Many people in hillside mobile homes here are poor and desperate, and a $698 monthly check per child from the Supplemental Security Income program goes a long way \u2014 and those checks continue until the child turns 18. \u201cThe kids get taken out of the program because the parents are going to lose the check,\u201d said Billie Oaks, who runs a literacy program here in Breathitt County, a poor part of Kentucky. \u201cIt\u2019s heartbreaking.\u201d This is painful for a liberal to admit, but conservatives have a point when they suggest that America\u2019s safety net can sometimes entangle people in a soul-crushing dependency. Our poverty programs do rescue many people, but other times they backfire. Some young people here don\u2019t join the military (a traditional escape route for poor, rural Americans) because it\u2019s easier to rely on food stamps and disability payments. Antipoverty programs also discourage marriage: In a means-tested program like S.S.I., a woman raising a child may receive a bigger check if she refrains from marrying that hard-working guy she likes. Yet marriage is one of the best forces to blunt poverty. In married couple households only one child in 10 grows up in poverty, while almost half do in single-mother households. Most wrenching of all are the parents who think it\u2019s best if a child stays illiterate, because then the family may be able to claim a disability check each month. \u201cOne of the ways you get on this program is having problems in school,\u201d notes Richard V. Burkhauser, a Cornell University economist who co-wrote a book last year about these disability programs. \u201cIf you do better in school, you threaten the income of the parents. It\u2019s a terrible incentive.\u201d About four decades ago, most of the children S.S.I. covered had severe physical handicaps or mental retardation that made it difficult for parents to hold jobs \u2014 about 1 percent of all poor children. But now 55 percent of the disabilities it covers are fuzzier intellectual disabilities short of mental retardation, where the diagnosis is less clear-cut. More than 1.2 million children across America \u2014 a full 8 percent of all low-income children \u2014 are now enrolled in S.S.I. as disabled, at an annual cost of more than $9 billion. That is a burden on taxpayers, of course, but it can be even worse for children whose families have a huge stake in their failing in school. Those kids may never recover: a 2009 study found that nearly two-thirds of these children make the transition at age 18 into S.S.I. for the adult disabled. They may never hold a job in their entire lives and are condemned to a life of poverty on the dole \u2014 and that\u2019s the outcome of a program intended to fight poverty. THERE\u2019S no doubt that some families with seriously disabled children receive a lifeline from S.S.I. But the bottom line is that we shouldn\u2019t try to fight poverty with a program that sometimes perpetuates it. A local school district official, Melanie Stevens, puts it this way: \u201cThe greatest challenge we face as educators is how to break that dependency on government. In second grade, they have a dream. In seventh grade, they have a plan.\u201d There\u2019s a danger in drawing too firm conclusions about an issue \u2014 fighting poverty \u2014 that is as complex as human beings themselves. I\u2019m no expert on domestic poverty. But for me, a tentative lesson from the field is that while we need safety nets, the focus should be instead on creating opportunity \u2014 and, still more difficult, on creating an environment that leads people to seize opportunities. To see what that might mean, I tagged along with Save the Children, the aid group we tend to think of as active in Sudan or Somalia. It\u2019s also in the opportunity business right here in the United States, in places like the mobile home of Britny Hurley \u2014 and it provides a model of what does work. Ms. Hurley, 19, is amiable and speaks quickly with a strong hill accent, so that at times I had trouble understanding her. Ms. Hurley says that she was raped by a family member when she was 12, and that another family member then introduced her to narcotics. She became an addict, she says, mostly to prescription painkillers that are widely trafficked here. Equipped with a crackling intelligence, Ms. Hurley once aspired to be a doctor. But her addictions and a rebellious nature got her kicked out of high school, and at 16 she became engaged to a boyfriend and soon had his baby. Yet there are ways of breaking this cycle. That\u2019s what Save the Children is doing here, working with children while they\u2019re still malleable, and it\u2019s an approach that should be a centerpiece of America\u2019s antipoverty program. Almost anytime the question is poverty, the answer is children. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb I invite you to comment on this column on my blog, On the Ground. Please also join me on Facebook and Google+, watch my YouTube videos and follow me on Twitter. \u00a0"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/09\/science\/earth\/talks-on-climate-produce-promises-and-complaints.html","body":"DOHA, Qatar \u2014 The annual United Nations climate change negotiations concluded here late Saturday after the customary all-night negotiating session and recriminations over who must bear the costs and burdens of a warming planet.Delegates from more than 190 nations agreed to extend the increasingly ineffective Kyoto Protocol a few years and to commit to more ambitious \u2014 but unspecified \u2014 actions to reduce emissions of climate-altering gases. Wealthy nations put off for a year resolution of the dispute over providing billions of dollars in aid to countries most heavily affected by climate change. Industrial nations have pledged to secure $100 billion a year by 2020 in public and private financing to help poor countries cope with climate change, but have been vague about what they plan to do before then. Only a handful of countries, not including the United States, have made concrete financial pledges for adaptation aid over the next few years. Todd D. Stern, the senior American negotiator, said that the United States would continue to provide substantial climate-related aid to vulnerable countries. But he said he was not in a position, given the budget talks in Washington and the Congressional process, to promise new American financing. The participants noted with \u201cgrave concern\u201d the widening gap between what countries have promised to do to reduce emissions and the growing concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. They declared it unlikely that on the current path the world would be able to keep global temperatures from rising more than two degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) from pre-industrial times, a central goal of the United Nations process. But the group left for future years any plan for addressing the mismatch between goals and reality, merely stating an intention to \u201cidentify and explore in 2013 options for a range of actions to close the pre-2020 ambition gap.\u201d The accomplishments of this year\u2019s meeting of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change were modest, but so were its aims. The meeting, formally known as the 18th Conference of the Parties, or COP 18, was always seen as a transition from the longstanding division of nations into industrialized perpetrators and developing-world victims of dangerous climate change. That division was enshrined in the Kyoto Protocol, which the United States never joined and which assigned pollution reduction targets to advanced nations but none to developing countries, including the world\u2019s current largest greenhouse gas emitter, China. The parties agreed last year in Durban, South Africa, to work toward a new protocol or other legally binding instrument that would require actions of all parties, not just rich nations as under the Kyoto agreement of 1997. The new agreement is to be concluded by 2015 and enter into force in 2020. The Doha meeting did not produce even the barest outline of what that new agreement would look like, leaving those questions for future meetings. The convention addressed the concept of loss and damage, recognizing the increasing frequency of extreme weather events as well as slower-acting threats like drought and sea level rise. The body adopted language urging more financial and technical support for the most vulnerable countries. But it did not create a mechanism to handle such aid, angering some delegates. Kieren Keke, foreign minister of the Pacific nation of Nauru and chairman of the Alliance of Small Island States, called the package adopted Saturday \u201cdeeply deficient.\u201d \u201cThis is not where we wanted to be at the end of the meeting, I assure you,\u201d he told the delegates. \u201cIt certainly isn\u2019t where we need to be in order to prevent islands from going under and other unimaginable impacts. It has become abundantly clear that unless the work is supported by world leaders, particularly those representing the countries most responsible for the crisis, we will continue to fall short year after year.\u201d It has long been evident that the United Nations talks were at best a partial solution to the planetary climate change problem, and at worst an expensive sideshow. The most effective actions to date have been taken at the national, state and local levels, with a number of countries adopting aggressive emissions reductions programs and using cap-and-trade programs or other means to help finance them. While the United States has not adopted a comprehensive approach to climate change, the Obama administration has put in place a significant auto emissions reduction program and a plan to regulate carbon dioxide from new power plants. California has adopted a cap-and-trade system for 2013. Other countries, including South Korea, Australia and most of Europe, started earlier and have gone much further. It is those kinds of efforts that hold the most promise, at least in the short term, for controlling a problem that scientists say is growing worse faster than any of them predicted even a few years ago. \u201cWhat this meeting reinforced is that while this is an important forum, it is not the only one in which progress can and must be made,\u201d said Jennifer Haverkamp, director of the international climate programs at the Environmental Defense Fund. \u201cThe disconnect between the level of ambition the parties are showing here and what needs to happen to avoid dangerous climate change is profound.\u201d"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/09\/business\/financiers-bet-on-rental-housing.html","body":"DAVID N. MILLER, a master of bailouts, steps to the dais and coolly explains how the financial world went crazy.It is February 2010. The anger behind Occupy Wall Street is building. Flicking through slides, Mr. Miller, a Treasury official working with the department\u2019s $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program, lays out what caused the housing bubble: easy credit, shoddy banking, feeble regulation, and on and on. \u201cHistory has demonstrated that the financial system over all \u2014 not every piece of it, but over all \u2014 is a force for good, even if it goes off track from time to time,\u201d Mr. Miller tells a symposium at Columbia University in remarks posted on YouTube. \u201cAs we\u2019ve experienced, sometimes this system breaks down.\u201d But, it turns out, sometimes when the system breaks down, there is money to be made. Mr. Miller, who arrived at the Treasury after working at Goldman Sachs, described himself as a \u201crecovering banker\u201d in the video. Today, he has slipped back through the revolving door between Washington and Wall Street. This time, he has gone the other way, in a new company, Silver Bay Realty, which is about to go public. He is back in the investment game and out to make money with a play that was at the center of the financial crisis: American housing. As the foreclosure crisis grinds on, knowledgeable, cash-rich investors are doing something that still gives many ordinary Americans pause: they are leaping headlong into the housing market. And not just into tricky mortgage investments, collateralized this or securitized that, but actual houses. A flurry of private-equity giants and hedge funds have spent billions of dollars to buy thousands of foreclosed single-family homes. They are purchasing them on the cheap through bank auctions, multiple listing services, short sales and bulk purchases from local investors in need of cash, with plans to fix up the properties, rent them out and watch their values soar as the industry rebounds. They have raised as much as $8 billion to invest, according to Jade Rahmani, an analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods. The Blackstone Group, the New York private-equity firm run by Stephen A. Schwarzman, has spent more than $1 billion to buy 6,500 single-family homes so far this year. The Colony Capital Group, headed by the Los Angeles billionaire Thomas J. Barrack Jr., has bought 4,000. Perhaps no investment company is staking more on this strategy, and asking stock-market investors to do the same, than the one Mr. Miller is involved with, Silver Bay Realty Trust of Minnetonka, Minn. Silver Bay is the brainchild of Two Harbors Investment, a publicly traded mortgage real estate investment trust that invests in securities backed by home mortgages. In January, Two Harbors branched out into buying actual homes and placed them in a unit called Silver Bay. It offered few details at the time, leaving analysts guessing about where it was headed. \u201cThey were not very forthcoming,\u201d says Merrill Ross, an analyst at Wunderlich Securities. As of Dec. 4, Two Harbors had acquired 2,200 houses. Ms. Ross says she couldn\u2019t find out how much Two Harbors paid or the rents it was charging. Two Harbors shares, which recently traded at $11.66, are up about 25 percent in 2012. Two Harbors now plans to spin off Silver Bay into a separately traded public REIT. The new company will combine Silver Bay\u2019s portfolio with Provident Real Estate Advisors\u2019 880-property portfolio. Silver Bay will focus on homes in Arizona, California, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina and Nevada, states where prices fell hard when the bottom dropped out. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission last week, Silver Bay said it planned to offer 13.25 million shares at an initial price of $18 to $20 a share. But it\u2019s no slam dunk. While home prices nationwide have begun to recover \u2014 they were up 6.3 percent in October, according to a report last week from CoreLogic, a data analysis firm \u2014 prices could fall again if the economy falters anew. Millions of Americans are still struggling to hold onto their homes and avoid foreclosure. \u201cRecent turbulence in U.S. housing and mortgage markets has created a unique opportunity,\u201d Silver Bay said in an S.E.C. filing. The company, which will be the first publicly traded REIT to invest solely in single-family rental homes, says its investment plan will help clear foreclosed homes from the market, spruce up neighborhoods and renovate vacant homes, presumably while enriching its new shareholders. Its portfolio will be managed by Pine River Capital Management, a hedge fund in Minnetonka that has reportedly been buying bonds backed by risky subprime mortgages. Mr. Miller is a managing director at Pine River and chief executive of Silver Bay. Mr. Miller, through a spokesman, declined to comment for this article, citing the pending stock offering. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/09\/business\/chevron-takes-aim-at-an-activist-shareholder.html","body":"PUBLIC corporations routinely tell shareholders that their views matter. The Chevron Corporation, for example, said in its 2012 proxy statement: \u201cYour board welcomes dialogue on the topics presented in the stockholder proposals on the following pages.\u201d So it might seem odd that last month Chevron subpoenaed one of its investors, Trillium Asset Management, which has sponsored numerous shareholder proposals at Chevron over the years. The oil company demanded documents related to those proposals. The subpoena also asked for records of discussions Trillium had about these proposals with the media.It is unusual to make such a demand from a shareholder, corporate governance experts say. While companies often try to keep shareholder resolutions off the ballot by contending that they do not follow the rules, going beyond that is rare. Trillium oversees $1 billion in assets and specializes in what is known as sustainable investing. It focuses on environmental, social and governance factors in its investments and pursues shareholder advocacy programs on these issues. In an interview last week, Jonas Kron, Trillium\u2019s director of shareholder advocacy and corporate engagement, declined to discuss the subpoena. But it is part of a Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations lawsuit Chevron has filed against an army of parties involved in bringing an environmental case against the company in Ecuador almost two decades ago. In February 2011, the court in Ecuador ruled against Chevron, awarding the plaintiffs more than $18 billion. The Ecuadorean matter centered on claims that Texaco Petroleum, which Chevron acquired in 2001, had polluted sections of a remote region in the Amazon. Chevron maintained that Texaco successfully remediated the site years before, in a $40 million cleanup. Chevron has not paid the judgment. The company has said it does not believe that the Ecuador judgment is enforceable \u201cin any court that observes the rule of law.\u201d It maintains that the Ecuadorean case was riddled with fraud and says it will \u201ccontinue to pursue relief against Ecuador in our pending arbitration and against the plaintiffs\u2019 representatives in our RICO action pending in New York.\u201d Last July, a federal judge in the United States declined to declare the judgment unenforceable; he did note that aspects of the trial in Ecuador were tainted. And a judge in Argentina froze the assets of a local Chevron unit last month as the court determines whether it should enforce the Ecuadorean judgment. Trillium is not a defendant in Chevron\u2019s RICO suit. But it, along with other shareholders, has questioned how Chevron has handled all this. Earlier this year, for example, 40 Chevron shareholders overseeing $580 billion in total assets signed a letter asking to meet with company management to discuss the matter. Chevron declined. When asked about the company\u2019s subpoena to Trillium, Justin Higgs, a Chevron spokesman, acknowledged that it was not standard operating procedure. But, Mr. Higgs said, it reflects the company\u2019s belief that Trillium was working closely with plaintiffs in the Ecuador case to pressure Chevron into a settlement. That belief, he said, is supported by documents produced in the suit. In an interview on Friday, Randy Mastro, a lawyer at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher who represents Chevron in the case, said: \u201cOur case is about a massive fraud and extortion scheme for billions of dollars. The conspirators enlisted a network of not-for-profits, so-called shareholders who were acting independently but really acting in collusion to get out their false story. We have a right to take discovery of those shareholders and those groups they enlisted to try to find out the methods of the scheme.\u201d Among the concerns Trillium has raised are Chevron\u2019s disclosures to investors about the potential liabilities associated with the judgment. In 2011, the fund manager asked the Securities and Exchange Commission\u2019s corporate finance unit to review whether Chevron had adequately explained \u201cthe scope and magnitude of financial and operational risk arising from the Ecuador judgment.\u201d In the letter, Trillium noted Chevron\u2019s public contention that the uncertain legal environment in Ecuador meant the company could not estimate \u201ca reasonably possible loss\u201d in the case. But Trillium contrasted this stance with deposition testimony in the RICO case from Rex Mitchell, Chevron\u2019s deputy controller. Mr. Mitchell said the company faced \u201cirreparable damages\u201d if the Ecuador plaintiffs succeeded in enforcing their judgment by seizing Chevron\u2019s assets. It is unclear how the S.E.C. responded to this request. Mr. Higgs, the Chevron spokesman, said all of the company\u2019s disclosures had been appropriate. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/09\/world\/asia\/for-afghan-officials-prospect-of-death-comes-with-territory.html","body":"KABUL, Afghanistan \u2014 There are so many ways for an Afghan official to die: car bombs, suicide attacks, a volley of bullets or, in the case of one particularly enterprising assassin, a handgun hidden in the sole of a shoe.On Thursday, a Taliban suicide bomber with a bomb hidden in his groin area tried to assassinate the new chief of Afghanistan\u2019s intelligence service in Kabul, seriously wounding him. Two weeks before, insurgents welcomed two of the country\u2019s newest governors with an armed assault in Helmand Province and a car bomb that leveled an entire city block in Wardak Province. Both governors survived and came away with an attribute essential for politicians here: a sharpened sense of fatalism. \u201cAssassination attempts are a part of the job,\u201d said Abdul Majid Khogyani, the new Wardak governor, seated in a makeshift office in his compound\u2019s frigid courtyard, the only place untouched by the bombing. \u201cIt comes with the package.\u201d He actually grinned. Government officials here do not worry so much about the wrath of constituents; a more immediate fear is coldblooded assassination at the hands of the Taliban. Public service jobs are among the most dangerous in Afghanistan, with hundreds of officials killed every year. The more important the official, the greater the risk \u2014 some particularly fortunate, and well defended, governors have survived more than a dozen assassination attempts. In the last few years, the Taliban have stepped up their campaign against politicians, targeting dozens of provincial and district governors, police chiefs and even marginal officials. It has been an effective tool, demonstrating the insurgents\u2019 power to inflict chaos and sow fear among government supporters. Last year, assassinations claimed 304 lives, the most since 2001, according to a United Nations report. Barring the remote possibility of a peace agreement with the Taliban, the killings are only likely to rise as the American-led military coalition withdraws its combat forces over the next two years. Perhaps the most favored targets are the 34 provincial governors, most of whom are far from the relatively secure enclave of Kabul. Appointed by the president, governors are often the highest-ranking officials most Afghans will ever see. If the persistence of attacks suggests a high-priority target, Gulab Mangal, the former governor of Helmand Province, is a Taliban trophy. Mr. Mangal survived 17 deadly attacks in his five years in office, including a rocket attack on a helicopter, before he was replaced this year by President Hamid Karzai. \u201cEven my friends asked me to quit,\u201d he said, emitting a burst of laughter. \u201cBut I loved my job and slowly, as time went on, I grew fearless.\u201d Not all politicians are so fortunate. Last year, a suicide bomber with explosives in his turban killed the mayor of Kandahar. This spring, the former governor of Uruzgan was fatally gunned down. A man wearing a police uniform with a suicide bomb vest underneath killed Gen. Daoud Daoud, the police commander who oversaw security in nine northern provinces, last year. The year before, insurgents killed the governor of Kunduz Province by bombing the mosque where he prayed. Though some assassinations are carried out for personal reasons, most are political. Despite the risks, governorships have retained their allure. While the position pays an average of only $23,000 a year, the job affords great power, and abundant opportunities for patronage and corruption. And after three decades of war \u2014 with the Soviets, among themselves or against the Taliban \u2014 some Afghans say they have become inured to the threat of death. \u201cThe mind-set we have in Afghanistan is different,\u201d said Farid Mamundzay, a deputy minister at the Independent Directorate of Local Governance. \u201cWe see people dying on a weekly if not daily basis. We\u2019ve gotten used to it.\u201d \u201cIf you die, you die,\u201d he added. Still, politicians take security seriously, spending vast amounts, sometimes from their own pockets, and often taking a direct role in their self-preservation. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb Sangar Rahimi contributed reporting from Kabul, Jawad Sukhanyar from Parwan, and Habib Zohori from Wardak"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/08\/us\/politics\/obama-to-accept-corporate-donations-for-2013-inaugural-events.html","body":"WASHINGTON \u2014 President Obama will accept unlimited donations from corporations \u2014 but no money from lobbyists or political action committees \u2014 to finance his 2013 inaugural festivities, a spokeswoman for his inaugural committee said Friday. The committee also said the activities surrounding Mr. Obama\u2019s inauguration would be smaller in scope than four years ago; the White House is mindful of the state of the economy and does not want a show of opulence. The panel did not release a schedule. But officials told donors during a conference call on Friday afternoon that there would be just three official inaugural balls \u2014 a candlelight ball for members of Mr. Obama\u2019s national finance committee, a military ball and a large presidential ball \u2014 down from 10 official balls in 2009, according to one person who listened to the call. The committee later sent donors a formal invitation detailing access to various reception and parties depending on how much they contribute. The most exclusive access will be reserved for individuals who contribute $250,000 or more and institutions that contribute $1 million or more. The decision to accept corporate money reverses Mr. Obama\u2019s policy from 2009, when he refused corporate donations and capped individual donations at $50,000 per person or $100,000 per couple. Mr. Obama also barred corporations from helping finance this year\u2019s Democratic National Convention. But after the most expensive campaign in presidential history \u2014 Mr. Obama, the Democratic National Committee and the party\u2019s joint fund-raising efforts took in $1.14 billion \u2014 many of the president\u2019s contributors are feeling worn out, and the committee concluded that it would be difficult to raise the tens of millions of dollars it needed for the parade, inaugural balls and other events. \u201cOur goal is to make sure that we will meet the fund-raising requirements for this civic event after the most expensive presidential campaign in history,\u201d the spokeswoman, Addie Whisenant, said in a statement, adding that donors\u2019 names would be posted on a Web site \u201cto ensure continued transparency.\u201d The question of whether the Presidential Inaugural Committee would accept corporate money has been a thorny one for Mr. Obama. Companies that donate money may have business before the White House, raising questions of conflict of interest. Committee officials said its lawyers would vet each donor, and those with conflicts would not be permitted to give. But government watchdog groups sharply criticized the decision and accused Mr. Obama of abandoning his principles. \u201cIt\u2019s very disappointing,\u201d said Robert Weissman, president of the advocacy group Public Citizen, which wrote to Mr. Obama last month urging him to reject corporate money. \u201cThere\u2019s no corporation which has no conflict of interest. It\u2019s really a terrible reversal of the decision they made in 2009.\u201d Committee officials counter that Mr. Obama is using standards adopted by civic institutions that take corporate money, including museums, philanthropic groups and service organizations like the Red Cross. The committee has laid down some guidelines for the kind of corporate money it will accept, an official said. Corporations that accepted money from the government\u2019s Troubled Asset Relief Program, used to rescue the financial system during the economic meltdown of 2008 and 2009, will not be able to donate unless they have paid back the TARP money. In addition, the committee said it would not enter into any sponsorship arrangements with companies. And in accordance with laws governing contributions to an inaugural committee, the panel will not accept money from foreign individuals or corporations. Presidents rely on a mix of public and private funds to pay for their inaugurations. Taxpayers pay the bill for security and for events at the Capitol \u2014 the swearing in-ceremony and traditional inaugural luncheon \u2014 but private money pays for everything else. In 2009, Mr. Obama raised $53 million for his first inauguration, which stretched over a four-day weekend. Donors are typically rewarded with access to exclusive events; on Friday afternoon\u2019s conference call, they were told that depending on their level of contribution, donors might be invited to \u201cbenefactor brunches\u201d at the White House on Jan. 17 and 18. In 2009, donors who contributed $10,000 or more were rewarded with V.I.P. tickets to the swearing-in ceremony, balls and other events, like a parade-watching party at a restaurant along the route and a concert for children at the Verizon Center. Those who contributed $50,000 or more were invited to events including black-tie dinners the night before the inauguration. Mr. Obama\u2019s 2009 inauguration was a star-studded event that brought 1.8 million people to Washington, more than three times the typical inaugural crowd. Some of the music industry\u2019s biggest celebrities \u2014 Bruce Springsteen, Bono and Beyonc\u00e9 among them \u2014 rocked the National Mall the day before Mr. Obama took his oath. The 2013 crowd is likely to be much smaller, and the committee has not said whether there will be a concert this time. But Mr. Obama has already announced that he will follow a practice he established four years ago by making Jan. 19, the day before his swearing-in, a national day of service."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/08\/nyregion\/quinn-supports-changing-rules-on-campaign-spending.html","body":"Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker and an expected candidate for mayor next year, is supporting a change to New York City\u2019s campaign finance rules that would significantly expand the ability of unions, corporations and advocacy groups to spend money on behalf of local candidates.The bill, to be introduced on Monday, would allow those outside groups to work directly with candidates on their internal political communications with members \u2014 including phone calls and door knocking tours, although not large-scale mailings \u2014 without the costs counting against the candidates\u2019 spending limits. Critics said the measure, introduced nine months ahead of what is expected to be a closely contested mayoral race, would effectively outsmart the city\u2019s stringent campaign finance system, which tries to rein in spending by interest groups and candidates alike. In a strongly worded statement on Friday, the city\u2019s Campaign Finance Board said the legislation \u201cwould open a gaping loophole\u201d in the city\u2019s regulations, \u201ceviscerate\u201d limits on coordinated spending by outside groups and \u201callow unions and corporations to operate above the law.\u201d \u201cA change of this magnitude has never before been proposed this late in the four-year election cycle,\u201d the board said in a memorandum marked \u201cUrgent.\u201d But supporters of the bill, including civil libertarians and some of the state\u2019s biggest grass-roots advocacy groups, said the measure was intended to guarantee the First Amendment rights of unions and other organizations to speak freely about political matters with their members. \u201cMembership communication is a part of what makes democracy work,\u201d said Karen Scharff, executive director of Citizen Action New York, an organization that advocates for public financing of elections and improvements to the state\u2019s campaign finance system, among other issues. \u201cEducation is a very important role of membership organizations and should not be limited,\u201d Ms. Scharff said. Unions and advocacy groups are big political players in New York City, often turning out thousands of members in critical districts to vote on Election Day and supplying candidates with grass-roots support. The proposed legislation, introduced by Councilwoman Rosie Mendez and backed by Ms. Quinn, comes after months of complaints from advocacy groups about a recent opinion by the Campaign Finance Board that classified a broad range of internal political activities by those groups as independent expenditures, subject to significant regulation by the board. Ms. Quinn\u2019s spokesman, Jamie McShane, dismissed the critical memorandum from the board as \u201chyperbolic,\u201d and argued that restrictions on spending by the general electorate would remain unchanged. \u201cThis Council has put in place the most strict spending limits anywhere in America,\u201d he said. City Council aides said that under the proposed legislation, any large-scale mailing of political material to a group\u2019s membership \u2014 one of the more potent ways that unions mobilize support \u2014 would still count against spending limits if coordinated directly with a candidate. But critics of the legislation said it would create a new and weaker definition of \u201ccoordination,\u201d a change that the Campaign Finance Board says would make it virtually impossible to prove that a mailing was illegally coordinated with a candidate. Even before the legislation is formally introduced next week, prominent civic groups were lining up on either side of it. Common Cause and Citizens Action support the proposal; Citizens Union is opposed. This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:Correction: December 11, 2012An article in some editions on Saturday about legislation backed by Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, that would allow unions and advocacy groups in New York City to spend money on political communications with their members without being subject to certain campaign finance restrictions misstated the position of the New York Civil Liberties Union on the proposal. While the group generally supports the use of legislation to address this issue, the group has not yet taken a position on the specific proposal backed by Ms. Quinn."}][{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/08\/opinion\/elections-in-new-york-time-to-consider-reforms.html","body":"To the Editor: \u201cMr. Cuomo\u2019s Next Big Task\u201d (editorial, Dec. 2), urging Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York to shepherd campaign finance reform through Albany, is laudable. Given our persistent problems with elections in New York, the governor should seize the opportunity to promote more comprehensive reform. This should include an overhaul of election administration, instituting a more professional model with better trained personnel. Ask any voter if her experience is smooth, efficient and user-friendly, and the reaction will likely be incredulity. A simplification of our registration procedures is needed: when interest in an election is high and potential voters want to participate, they will likely discover that it is too late to register or enroll. Election Day registration, practiced by several states, should be introduced. Reform should also include an expansion of voting by allowing universal mail-in balloting, early voting and the use of the Internet. Many jurisdictions permit extensive use of the mails and pre-Election Day voting, and we should evaluate how New Jersey fared with the Internet this year. Such innovation would no doubt increase voter turnout. In addition, emergency preparedness for elections is essential. If 9\/11, a day New Yorkers went to the polls to nominate a candidate for mayor, did not convince anyone (the primary was postponed), certainly Hurricanes Irene and Sandy should have. Unless and until we put a Plan B in place if there is a natural disaster or, God forbid, another terrorist attack on or before Election Day, we may lose the ability to conduct full and fair elections. These are some proposals, along with campaign finance reform, that ought to be on the table to bring our state into the 21st century. A full-throated approach is in order. JERRY H. GOLDFEDER New York, Dec. 6, 2012 The writer, an election lawyer, was special counsel for public integrity to Andrew M. Cuomo when he was New York attorney general."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/08\/nyregion\/obama-proposes-hurricane-recovery-bill.html","body":"WASHINGTON \u2014 President Obama proposed a $60.4 billion emergency spending bill on Friday to finance recovery efforts in areas pummeled by Hurricane Sandy, a sum that White House officials called a \u201crobust\u201d investment in the region but that was far less than what the states had requested.The spending plan would pay for most, but not all, of the $82 billion in damage identified by the governors of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, helping homeowners and small-business owners rebuild, repairing subway and other transit systems, replenishing eroded beaches and reimbursing governments for the cost of police, fire and other services. The president\u2019s plan would not cover several big-ticket items sought by state governments. It would not pay for damage already covered by private insurance and would extend aid only to primary residences. While small businesses would be eligible for help, larger private firms like Consolidated Edison would not. The plan also assumes that states will have to pay about 10 percent of the cost of any repair and mitigation projects that are approved, even though they asked the federal government to cover 100 percent. The proposal now goes to Congress, where it is likely to become the focus of a fight between fiscal conservatives seeking to limit federal spending and lawmakers from storm-battered areas bent on obtaining even more than what Mr. Obama proposed. Mr. Obama proposed no spending cuts elsewhere to pay the cost, arguing that such emergencies typically do not require offsetting measures. Leaders from New York, New Jersey and other hard-hit states generally welcomed the proposal, even though it fell short of what they were seeking to clean up storm damage and prepare for future storms. The White House increased the overall spending request from the $45 billion to $55 billion estimated earlier in the week, attributing the change to more information received about the extent of the damage. Govs. Andrew M. Cuomo, Democrat of New York, and Chris Christie, Republican of New Jersey, spent much of Friday negotiating the final package with the White House. In a joint statement, they praised the proposal, saying \u201cit enables our states to recover, repair and rebuild better and stronger than before.\u201d Two New York lawmakers leading a hurricane recovery task force \u2014 Representatives Peter T. King, a Long Island Republican, and Nita M. Lowey, a Democrat from Westchester County \u2014 expressed support for the White House proposal but left open the possibility that additional financing might be sought. \u201cWhile more may be needed in the long term,\u201d they said, \u201cthis robust package is a major first step that we will work to pass as quickly as possible in Congress to help devastated communities, families and businesses.\u201d In a joint statement, Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York and Frank R. Lautenberg and Robert Menendez of New Jersey echoed the sentiment. The senators, all Democrats, described the White House proposal as \u201ca very good start\u201d but noted that more aid may be \u201cnecessary as our states\u2019 needs become more clear.\u201d Mr. Obama\u2019s proposal seeks to finance an assortment of projects and programs reflecting the daunting array of storm-related needs. They include these items: \u00b6 $17 billion for the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Community Development Block Grant program to provide help to homeowners. \u00b6 $11.5 billion for the federal disaster relief fund that provides checks to individuals, reimbursement for government services and assistance to rebuild public facilities. \u00b6 $9 billion to repair and upgrade transit systems. \u00b6 $4 billion for the Army Corps of Engineers, which will be in charge of various projects including beach replenishment. \u00b6 $9 billion for flood insurance. \u00b6 $2 billion to repair federal facilities. \u00b6 $1 billion for the Small Business Administration\u2019s aid program. The proposal comes at a politically inopportune time, as Mr. Obama and Congressional leaders in both parties try to reach an agreement intended to avert a so-called fiscal cliff next month, when broad tax cuts are set to expire and automatic spending cuts are scheduled to go into effect. As the White House finds itself locked in a showdown with Congressional Republicans over these broader budget concerns, it was seeking to present the storm spending request as a separate issue that does not affect the long-term health of the Treasury. But it appears likely that the emergency spending measure will become entangled in the larger spending struggle between the White House and Republicans, who would like to maintain the upper hand on the deficit. Some key Republicans have suggested that the aid requests should be taken up in phases, with emergency needs addressed in the current Congressional session and longer-term requests left for the new Congress that convenes next year. But regional leaders want Congress to approve as much aid as possible before it adjourns in the coming weeks, partly because they fear there will be less urgency to act as the months pass."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/08\/business\/european-banks-thriving-as-investor-fears-ease.html","body":"THE European bank crisis was one of the major worries of 2012. There were forecasts that the euro zone would break up, that various countries would default on their debts and that undercapitalized banks would fail because national governments could not afford to keep them alive.The bank crisis is not yet resolved, but it \u201cappears to have been put on the back burner of investor concerns,\u201d Jeffrey Yale Rubin and Kevin Pleines of Birinyi Associates said in a research bulletin sent to clients this week. The accompanying charts show what has happened to the share prices of an index of euro zone bank stocks, and to each of the 28 members in the index, since June 30. In early July, the index kept falling, but by late in the month it turned around. Anyone who bought all the banks at the end of June is up by about 25 percent. Anyone with the good fortune to buy at the exact bottom has a profit of about half the money invested. The bank stocks have outperformed other European stocks and they have outperformed American bank stocks, although the shares of most American banks also have risen. The reasons for the relaxation of investor fears are simple enough. There is a growing confidence that euro zone institutions will succeed in their support efforts. Finance ministers are still arguing about the details of a single regulator for banks throughout the zone, but the European Central Bank\u2019s promise to lend money to banks that need it is widely accepted, and investors believe that Germany will put up whatever money is needed to keep the euro zone from breaking up. Troubled governments like Italy and Spain are still paying much more than Germany to borrow, but their rates have fallen. Costs have declined even in Portugal, which is in the weakest position of countries other than Greece. The French banks led the way up in late 2012, but even the price of Banco Espirito, a Portuguese bank, has soared by about half since midyear. There are still major concerns about troubled Spanish banks, and two of those join an Italian institution in being the only stock market losers over the period. But the National Bank of Greece managed a small gain. None of this means that those banks have served long-term shareholders well. Only one of them, a Finnish institution, has a share price higher than it did at the end of 2007, before the financial crisis. But, for now at least, investors seem to have growing confidence that the banks will survive. Given the fears of a few months ago, that is reason for celebration. Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com\/economix."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/08\/business\/fraud-accusation-by-solar-panel-maker.html","body":"A Chinese solar panel maker, Suntech Power Holdings, already under pressure from the collapse in the price of its products, said an internal investigation had determined that the company was defrauded by a partner in a solar development fund. As a result, Suntech will reduce its 2010 net income by $60 million to $80 million, it said. The accusation involves a Luxembourg investment fund, GSF Sicar, a solar power plant developer that is 80 percent owned by Suntech and 10 percent by Zhengrong Shi, who founded Suntech in 2001. The accusation relates to a minority shareholder, GSF Capital PTE, which owns the remaining 10 percent of the fund. Suntech, which plans to file restated consolidated results in early 2013, said it had concluded that a security interest it received from GSF Capital to finance Italian solar projects did not exist. It said in August that the 560 million euro ($727 million) security was in the form of German bonds. Suntech is also weighing alternatives to cover a $541 million convertible bond due in 2013. Suntech is grappling with a global glut of solar panels that has sent prices into a tailspin. The company also said revenue fell 18 percent in the third quarter from the second because subsidies were cut in Europe, a top solar market. Shipments of photovoltaic solar panels are expected to be lower than planned. Suntech also said that its results for 2011 and the first quarter of 2012 should not be relied on, although the impact was expected to be immaterial. The Chinese solar panel industry received a vote of confidence, too, on Friday, when a Suntech rival, JinkoSolar Holding, said its Swiss unit would get up to $1 billion over five years from the China Development Bank Corporation to provide money for projects outside China."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/08\/business\/global\/in-troubled-times-clothes-still-make-the-business-man-and-woman.html","body":"MILAN \u2014 Karen Katz works in the fashion industry. But unlike some of her peers, she has never, ever shown up for her 9 a.m. appointment in a strapless dress dripping with paillettes the size of golf balls.On any given day, as the chief executive of Neiman Marcus Group, Ms. Katz is as likely to meet with a banker or a board member as with the chief executive of Balenciaga. And so, despite being known in industry circles for her finely honed sense of style, she understands that her position requires an impeccable professional polish and no fashion funny business. She is not alone. In the toughest global economic environment in decades, internationally adept businesspeople know that the impression they create with their personal on-the-go, global style is an important aspect of professional success. The clothes they wear, the shoes they choose, the bags and briefcases they tote \u2014 all are part of the aura of cosmopolitan competence that well-appointed executives cultivate. And so the best put-together professionals confidently tread a middle ground between business boring and fashion outr\u00e9. For instance, even though Mark Shelton, a financial executive for Credit Suisse International in London, no longer necessarily wears a tie on the trading floor, he does take care to wear a well-fitting suit \u2014 whether from a classic tailor like Anderson & Sheppard or higher-fashion fare from Lanvin. And even though Betsy Pearce, a lawyer based in Paris, favors avant garde silhouettes \u2014 a puffed sleeve, a voluminous peplum \u2014 she keeps things in check with a somber palette. Business meetings, Ms. Pearce counseled, are \u201cnot the place to wear orange.\u201d None of this happens by accident. Ms. Katz, for example, has mastered the art of mining seasonal trends for work-a-day wardrobe gems. Some of her go-to brands \u2014 Dries Van Noten, Jil Sander and Alexander McQueen \u2014 are not necessarily office-friendly when they first stride down the runway. \u201cI work through those collections to find the right dress, the right jacket,\u201d she explained. \u201cIt absolutely needs to be edited to be work-appropriate.\u201d Ms. Katz almost always shops for versatile pieces, like a feather-lined vest from Brunello Cucinelli, Prada geometric-print pants or a black motorcycle jacket from The Row that can be paired with more formal pieces for the office or evenings but also worn with jeans for the weekend. \u201cI look fashionable every day,\u201d Ms. Katz said. \u201cAnd the pendulum swings between more, or less, edgy when I\u2019m with bankers. But I certainly don\u2019t dumb down the way I dress.\u201d And when it comes to a high-stakes business meeting attire, she has her own idea of the power suit. \u201cIt\u2019s always a dress!\u201d she said, favoring feminine designs by Bottega Veneta and Jason Wu. But for some other executive women, pants after many years on the outs, are finally coming back into high fashion, led by houses like Prada and Saint Laurent Paris. For Ms. Pearce, the lawyer, they never really went out of style. Her ensemble for a recent boardroom meeting with Goldman Sachs included Elise Overland\u2019s black leather leggings and a sharply tailored black Balenciaga jacket. \u201cI could see the women in the room were overwhelmed by the boldness of what I was wearing,\u201d Ms. Pearce recalled. \u201cBut I could also tell they thought it was cool.\u201d Ms. Pearce, who favors an all-black work uniform composed largely of Belgian designers she buys at the central Parisian boutique L\u2019\u00c9claireur, has no use for the sea of boring beige many female lawyers swim to work in. Bucking legal conventions is something of a sport for Ms. Pearce, who has been known to pair crisply pressed, untucked J.Crew men\u2019s shirts with designer jackets by Comme des Gar\u00e7ons, Dries Van Noten or Balenciaga. \u201cTo see a roomful of women in bad panty hose, pumps and matching suits makes me want to cry,\u201d she said, only half laughing. When it comes to shoes, professional women can find stylish options in sturdy packages. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/07\/business\/sorting-out-a-chinese-puzzle-in-auditing.html","body":"Imagine for a moment that you were auditing a company whose principal asset was trees that it would eventually cut down to sell the timber. Would you bother to verify whether the company actually owned the trees? Would you make sure that the trees the company showed to your auditors were the same trees it claimed to own?To the Canadian affiliate of Ernst & Young, the answer to both questions appears to be no. How, asked one Ernst staff member involved in the audit in an e-mail to a colleague, \u201cdo we know that the trees\u201d the auditors were being shown \u201care actually trees owned by the company? E.g. could they show us trees anywhere and we would not know the difference?\u201d The answer was yes: \u201cI believe they could show us trees anywhere and we would not know the difference,\u201d replied the colleague. That did not lead Ernst to change its procedures. Nor did it bother to look at documents that it knew were crucial to answering the questions about the Sino-Forest Corporation, which was based in Canada but had its operations in China. Until the summer of 2011, Sino-Forest appeared to be a real success story, backed by underwriters like Credit Suisse and Toronto Dominion and with shares worth billions of dollars. Its bonds were rated as just under investment grade by Standard & Poor\u2019s and Moody\u2019s. Then a short-selling operation known as Muddy Waters said it thought the assets were greatly exaggerated. Sino-Forest appointed a group of its independent directors to investigate, and in due course they concluded they could not even be sure just what trees the company claimed to own, let alone whether it owned them. This week brought the Sino-Forest case close to a conclusion. Ernst agreed to settle a shareholders\u2019 suit for 117 million Canadian dollars, or about $116 million, while denying it was liable. The company agreed to come out of bankruptcy with its assets, whatever they might be, owned by the creditors. The company had tried to find buyers, and a number looked at the documents, but nobody bid. There still seems to be no certainty about how much, if any, timber the company owns. While Ernst settled the shareholder suit, it said it would fight new charges by the Ontario Securities Commission that the audit firm failed to follow proper audit procedures. It was the commission suit, filed this week, that disclosed the e-mails exchanged by the auditors. \u201cWe are confident that Ernst & Young Canada\u2019s work was conducted in accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS) and met all professional standards,\u201d the firm said in a statement. \u201cThe evidence we will present to the O.S.C. will show that Ernst & Young Canada did extensive audit work to verify ownership and existence of Sino-Forest\u2019s timber assets.\u201d However extensive the work, the audit failed to uncover the essential truth: the assets were fake. Frauds, and audit failures, can happen in many countries. But China is a special case because the authorities there seem to be completely uninterested in getting to the bottom of scandals whose victims are American or Canadian investors. Even regulators in Hong Kong have voiced frustration with their mainland colleagues. Last week China sent another delegation to the United States to talk about these issues with American regulators, and a Chinese official was quoted by The Financial Times as telling a Hong Kong audience that audit working papers should be shared with other regulators \u2014 something the Chinese supposedly agreed to a decade ago but had never actually done. \u201cI think we\u2019ll shortly be able to work out a way to deliver those papers,\u201d he said. The American regulators have heard those stories before. In July, the chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, Guo Shuqing, told Mary L. Schapiro, then the chairwoman of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, that he thought an agreement could be reached. It turned out that the Chinese insisted they would provide documents only if the S.E.C. promised not to use them in an enforcement proceeding without Chinese permission. The week the S.E.C. filed court papers, in connection with its pending case against a Chinese affiliate of Deloitte, laying out case after case in which American regulators asked for assistance through obtaining audit work papers or even something as simple as verifying that a Chinese company existed. Repeatedly, the Chinese said something could be worked out, but somehow nothing ever was. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com\/economix."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/07\/business\/global\/european-leaders-oppose-issuing-common-debt.html","body":"BRUSSELS \u2014 Four of the European Union\u2019s top officials delivered their judgment Thursday on how best to shore up the euro zone \u2014 and seemed to do so in a German accent.The recommendations on how to steer the euro area out of its continuing debt crisis and prevent a similar catastrophe in the future were contained in a report titled \u201cTowards a Genuine Economic and Monetary Union.\u201d The document, mainly written by Herman Van Rompuy, the president of the European Council, has been in the works for much of this year and will help set the agenda for the Union\u2019s political leaders at their summit meeting in Brussels on Dec. 13-14. Mr. Van Rompuy\u2019s co-authors were the European Central Bank president, Mario Draghi; the European Commission president, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso; and Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the Eurogroup of finance ministers from the 17 countries in the euro zone. In a victory for Germany and other prosperous northern European countries, the officials rejected the idea that the euro zone issue debt backed by the 17 member states \u2014 something that would enable countries with weaker economies to borrow at rates similar to those of Germany\u2019s. Instead, the paper suggested a way to achieve \u201ccommon debt issuance without resorting to the mutualization of sovereign debt.\u201d That would require a separate budget for the euro zone and, eventually, a central treasury with the capacity to sell bonds to fund structural overhauls across the currency area, cushion member states against sudden economic shocks and make it less likely that sovereign bailouts will be needed in the future. To participate, countries would have to agree to \u201ccontractual arrangements\u201d that would commit them to addressing national weaknesses, like bottlenecks to growth and unemployment. That is the kind of conditionality designed to appeal to German sensibilities. But that recommendation will disappoint leaders from countries including France and Italy, which favor the issuance of shared debt in the form of so-called eurobonds. The report also played down the need for a euro zone system of bank deposit guarantees. Instead, the report suggested that a single supervisor under the aegis of the E.C.B. would ensure \u201cstrict and impartial\u201d oversight of banks. This would be combined with a system to cover the cost of shutting down failing lenders in an orderly way. That, the report says, would help prevent frail banks from endangering national finances and pushing countries toward the need for full bailouts. At the summit meeting next week, Mr. Van Rompuy is expected to seek a firm agreement on setting up a bank resolution fund by the end of 2014, financed mainly by levies on the banks themselves rather than by taxpayers. But if finance ministers fail to reach agreement on how to establish the new banking supervisor at a gathering on the eve of the meeting E.U. leaders would arrive the following day without a cornerstone in place for the reforms envisioned by Mr. Van Rompuy and his co-authors. The report recommends that rules be put in place by April 2013 to allow countries including Spain to move the burden of bailing out their teetering banking sectors from national balance sheets and onto the ledger of the European Stability Mechanism, the euro zone\u2019s bailout fund. That timing is awkward for the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, who faces national elections in October 2013, because such a system would likely stoke unease among voters who fear they could eventually be stuck with most of the bill for bailing out weaker economies. In fact, a system for the direct recapitalization of banks is likely to go ahead only once the supervisor is fully operating in January 2014, and once there is agreement among euro area countries on whether the capital could be used to help troubled banking systems. Finance ministers from Germany, Finland and the Netherlands have said they want the funds to be used only to recapitalize banks that get into trouble in the future. Analysts said that public support could remain a stumbling block. \u201cAs far as democratic legitimacy and accountability is concerned, there is little progress from the interim report\u201d Mr. Von Rompuy released this year, Philippe Gudin de Vallerin, an economist at Barclays, wrote in a briefing note on Thursday. \u201cThe European Parliament, together with national parliaments, are set to play an important role, but the general institutional framework remains quite vague.\u201d"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/07\/us\/twenty-years-later-nafta-remains-a-source-of-tension.html","body":"SAN ANTONIO \u2014 Nearly two decades after a pact initiated here created the world\u2019s largest free trade area, economists are calling the North American Free Trade Agreement a resounding success, crediting it for fueling unprecedented trade and creating millions of jobs in the United States.The agreement between the United States, Mexico and Canada, ratified 19 years ago Saturday, also made two of Texas\u2019 land ports among the country\u2019s busiest and delivered a multi-trillion-dollar cumulative gross domestic product for its member countries. But unions and consumer-advocacy groups say Nafta has had negative effects in Mexico and the United States. They say that resulting outsourcing and lower wages have hurt the United States\u2019 domestic economy and that Mexico\u2019s rural industries have destabilized. As economists look to build on Nafta\u2019s momentum to improve trade relations between member nations, critics say they should look to past failures to avoid similar mistakes in the future. Nafta, which was enacted in 1994, eliminated existing tariffs on more than half of the exports from Mexico to the United States and gradually phased out remaining tariffs between all member countries. The pact has benefited all three members. In 2010, the United States had $918 billion in two-way trade with Canada and Mexico, according to the office of Ron Kirk, United States trade representative. Economists say that progress has come despite enhanced global security measures following the Sept. 11 attacks and an eruption of drug-related violence in Mexico. During a recent symposium here, economists and policy makers celebrated Nafta\u2019s success and brainstormed ways to build on it and bolster economic output. The symposium concluded with a clear message: the future is wide open. \u201cWe must continue to build upon Nafta and think more as a region in order to be more competitive globally,\u201d said Ger\u00f3nimo Guti\u00e9rrez, the managing director of the North American Development Bank, which was created by the governments of Mexico and the United States after Nafta\u2019s inception and helps finance and develop infrastructure projects on the border. But critics of Nafta say ithas resulted in a loss of United States manufacturing and shipping jobs and in less production oversight. They say Nafta has also displaced Mexican agricultural workers into other sectors or forced them to immigrate illegally to the United States. \u201cThere have been huge disparities in the number of people entering the work force and the number of jobs available,\u201d said Timothy A. Wise, the policy research director at the Global Development and Environment Institute at Tufts University. \u201cThat resulted in the huge migration problem despite the increased enforcement.\u201d Supporters say Nafta was not conceived to solve domestic problems for any member country. Instead, they say, the growth in the nations\u2019 G.D.P.\u2019s speaks to the pact\u2019s positive effects. They include the creation of six million jobs in the United States tied to Nafta policies, more than $500 billion in goods and services traded between the United States and Mexico, and the ports of Laredo and El Paso being among the United States\u2019 busiest. Through September, about $172.5 billion in trade with Mexico passed through the Laredo port and about $65 billion through El Paso, according to United States census data analyzed by WorldCity, which tracks global trade patterns. Canada remains the country\u2019s top partner, with $462.3 billion in trade during the same time frame, ahead of China, which is at $389.7 billion and Mexico, with $369.5 billion. \u201cI don\u2019t think that Nafta was created to alleviate every single social problem in Mexico. It could not, and it has not,\u201d Mr. Guti\u00e9rrez said. \u201cI think that Mexico would be worse off if it wasn\u2019t for Nafta today.\u201d Public Citizen, a nonprofit advocacy group with offices in Washington and Austin, cites United States Department of Labor data to support what it says is a negative impact on the American work force because of rising imports or offshoring production. In Texas alone, Public Citizen said, there have been almost 2,500 companies whose workers or union affiliates have filed petitions with the department for training or temporary assistance under its Trade Adjustment Assistance program. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb jaguilar@texastribune.org"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/07\/opinion\/100-75-50-years-ago.html","body":"1912 Peace Conference Preparations Begin LONDON \u2014 With the exception of the concentration of the Greek forces around Hanina, in Epirus, military operations have been entirely suspended in the Balkans, and interest centres in the forthcoming peace conference in London. Although no official lists of the delegates of the Balkan States and of Turkey have been given out, it is possible to obtain an idea of the probable composition of the conference. The preparations for the Peace Conference in London next week are now in active progress. The place of meeting has not yet been decided upon, but it is suggested that the India Office will be placed at the disposal of the delegates. The Ambassadors\u2019 Conference will probably be held at the Foreign Office. According to Reuter\u2019s Agency, it is expected in Ottoman circles that the conference will probably last until the first week in January. 1937 Australia Seizes Modigliani Prints MELBOURNE \u2014 Declaring that their subject matter was prurient, the Melbourne customs department has seized fifty prints of a painting by the Italian artist, Amedeo Modigliani, who is said to be one of the \u201cgreatest masters of the nude.\u201d The prints, which were being consigned to a Melbourne art dealer, Gino Nibbi, are to be destroyed. The original by Modigliani is called \u201cLying Nude.\u201d A bronze-skinned girl, with black hair and heavily-shadowed eyes, is shown reclining with her hands behind her head. The customs department\u2019s explanation of the seizure was that the prints would have had a strong appeal to others than genuine art collectors. It was stated that they did not object to the fact that the figure was a nude, but to the type of nude and to the cheap form of print. This view is strongly contested by Mr. Adrian Lawlor, a Melbourne artist. 1962 French Leader Announces New Cabinet PARIS \u2014 Prime Minister Georges Pompidou tonight [Dec. 6] announced his slate of ministers in the new French government. He retained the same men in the key posts of Foreign Affairs, Finance, Defense and Interior. The new National Assembly convened today for its first session \u2014 and the relationship between the government and Parliament promises to be one of the smoothest in French history. For the first time in all the republics, Parliament is dominated by one political party, and if there has ever been a man in French political history who knew what he wanted to do in directing the government, it is President Charles de Gaulle. The new Cabinet was announced after a long conference between Mr. Pompidou and the President at the Elys\u00e9e Palace. The ministers are all Gaullists or non-political technicians."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/07\/opinion\/why-college-costs-so-much.html","body":"To the Editor: Re \u201cAid Changes Raise Issue of Diversity at Colleges\u201d (news article, Dec. 1): The way to deal with tuition costs is not to finance the customer but to analyze why tuition is so high in the first place. The real cost is scholarship. We are asking our colleges to educate our children, but on top of that, we ask colleges to provide the country with scholarly output in 50 or so disciplines. Faculty research is expensive. Labs, libraries and studios need to be built and staffed, and while grants can bring some relief, tuition holds up the system. Colleges have too much in their job descriptions. Perhaps the tab for our national scholarship needs to be borne by us all, not just the parents of college students. BONNIE COLLIER New Haven, Dec. 3, 2012 The writer is a former associate librarian for administration at Yale Law School."}][{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/07\/books\/robert-gottliebs-book-on-dickens-and-his-children.html","body":"In \u201cGreat Expectations\u201d the illustrious book editor Robert Gottlieb examines the long shadow cast by Charles Dickens over the lives of his children. This sketchy group biography could not have a better title, but Mr. Gottlieb takes an oddly equivocal position toward his material. On the one hand, the famously unhappy union between Dickens and Catherine Hogarth \u2014 who was cast off bitterly by her husband after she bore 10 children and experienced several miscarriages, all in a period of 15 years \u2014 makes him think of his own parents\u2019 marriage. On the other, he is a father who identifies with Dickens and can \u201csympathize to a certain extent with his frustrations.\u201dMr. Gottlieb makes a point of saying that his own children are perfect. Dickens, likewise, sometimes saw perfection in the little Dickenses, especially when they were newborns, or when he chose to embellish entertainingly about them. But as \u201cGreat Expectations\u201d repeatedly illustrates, his exultation faded fast. He claimed to have raised \u201cthe largest family ever known with the smallest disposition to do anything for themselves.\u201d He sat at the family dinner table and saw in every seat \u201csome horribly well remembered expression of inadaptability to anything.\u201d Mr. Gottlieb\u2019s book follows this trajectory of disappointment, time and again. He devotes two separate sections to each child. One chapter describes that child\u2019s life with Father, even if very little is known about the youngest ones\u2019 early years. Another chapter is about what became of the child after Dickens\u2019s death. Stories of failure, dissipation and ill health abound. The tales of Dickens children who lived to ripe old ages and lived happy, productive lives are rare. How much of this unhappiness was a consequence of the parents\u2019 disastrous marriage? How burdensome are the expectations placed on children of a great man? (Dickens barely acknowledged the existence of his offspring\u2019s mother after he became involved with the actress Ellen Ternan. Taking his lead from Claire Tomalin\u2019s 2011 full Dickens biography, Mr. Gottlieb believes that Dickens and Ternan may also have had a child.) Dickens\u2019s children were frequently compared invidiously with their father. One of them, Henry, who grew up to be a witty jurist, remembered being told, \u201cI am sorry to see a son of Charles Dickens with such a small head.\u201d But most of the offspring, \u201chowever unfortunate, were far from disgraceful,\u201d Mr. Gottlieb writes, \u201cand would attract no opprobrium (and no attention) if they didn\u2019t have the Dickens name attached to them.\u201d Nor would they warrant the scrutiny of \u201cGreat Expectations,\u201d which hazily detects \u201csomething bewildering about them that is not easy to explain.\u201d Charles Culliford Boz Dickens, the oldest, born in 1837, was relatively lucky. Charley\u2019s famous father attracted the help of a wealthy patron, Angela Burdett-Coutts, who helped finance the boy\u2019s education. \u201cHis natural talent is quite remarkable,\u201d Dickens wrote when Charley was 8. Only months later, the father observed of Charley that \u201cwhen he is in full school employment, a strange kind of fading comes over him sometimes.\u201d Later he would say more harshly that Charley had inherited from his mother \u201can indescribable lassitude of character\u201d and that \u201cI think he has less fixed purpose and energy than I could have supposed possible in my son.\u201d Charley was sent to Germany \u2014 Dickens\u2019s sons were routinely packed off to faraway places, including India and Australia \u2014 and seemed earmarked for a mercantile career despite a burgeoning talent for journalism. (How could Dickens fail to notice writing talent, Mr. Gottlieb wonders?) And after his father\u2019s death, Charley became embroiled in financial feuding with other family members. But he would flourish later, write \u201cDickens\u2019 Dictionary of London\u201d (a \u201ccompletely appealing\u201d work, in Mr. Gottlieb\u2019s expert opinion), become an editor and go on tour to deliver readings of \u201cPersonal Reminiscences From My Father.\u201d He had a happy marriage and viable career. \u201cHe just wasn\u2019t his father,\u201d Mr. Gottlieb writes, getting as close as he can to the heart of the matter. \u201cBut then no one else was either.\u201d The oldest daughter, Mary Angela Dickens \u2014 Mamie \u2014 was a more typical exemplar of the family troubles. Mamie was \u201cthe hardest to grasp, the most contradictory and possibly the least happy.\u201d Her book \u201cCharles Dickens: By His Eldest Daughter\u201d infuriated her spirited younger sister Kate (who became a painter) and is deemed \u201codd\u201d by Mr. Gottlieb for good reason. \u201cIt was still the most beautiful and lovable of all faces in the world,\u201d she wrote of her father in his final years. \u201cThis is not an objective biographer at work,\u201d Mr. Gottlieb says, \u201cbut a woman in love.\u201d \u201cGreat Expectations\u201d shows how few of the children had such opportunity to revere their father, or even know him well. He could best profess paternal affection from afar and preferred distance to close range. He sent away his young sons with the clear knowledge that he might never see them again. \u201cThey may have been angered by his cavalier disposal of them and resentful of his easy domination over them,\u201d Mr. Gottlieb writes tepidly at his book\u2019s conclusion, \u201cbut not only were they fiercely proud of his accomplishments, they loved him.\u201d Mr. Gottlieb also finds nothing but \u201cslim pickings\u201d when he tries to link the indelible children in Dickens\u2019s novels to the more forgotten figures who really bore the Dickens name. Charley Dickens said it better. \u201cThe children of his brain,\u201d Charley said of Pip, Oliver Twist, David Copperfield and the rest, \u201cwere much more real to him at times than we were.\u201d"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/06\/business\/global\/06iht-corrupt06.html","body":"Greece is considered Europe\u2019s most corrupt country, ranking roughly on par with Colombia and Swaziland in an annual global survey of perceived corruption released Wednesday.Transparency International, a corruption watchdog, ranked Greece 94th out of 176 countries in the 2012 corruption perceptions index, which surveys economic experts about the perceived level of public sector corruption. Last year, Greece ranked 80th. Using a scale introduced for this year\u2019s report, Transparency International ranked the countries between zero, which is \u201chighly corrupt,\u201d and 100, for \u201cvery clean.\u201d Two-thirds of the 176 countries surveyed scored below 50, including Italy and Greece from among the 17 members of the European Union that use the euro. Italy ranked 72nd. Ireland, Spain and Portugal earned scores above 50 but dropped in the rankings compared with 2011, underlining the perception that economic stability was linked to good government. \u201cWe believe that corruption in the public sector frequently goes hand in hand with a failure of institutions,\u201d said Edda M\u00fcller, who heads the German branch of Transparency International, based in Berlin. \u201cAt the same time, we see, not only in Europe, a high amount of corruption points to a lack of ethics on the part of politicians.\u201d She cited the list of Greeks believed to hold accounts in a Swiss bank as a possible influence. It included a former culture minister, several employees of the Finance Ministry and a number of business leaders. As finance minister of France, Christine Lagarde in 2010 handed the list to the Greek government in an effort to help it crack down on tax evasion. A Greek publication released the list in October, raising questions among the country\u2019s international lenders about whether the government was actively bolstering its tax collection, one of several promises the country made to secure billions of euros in aid. Finance ministers of the countries using the euro meet again next week to decide whether to disburse the next round of aid to Greece. Denmark, Finland and New Zealand ranked as the least corrupt countries, with Sweden, the Netherlands, Germany and Britain all included among the 20 least corrupt. The United States climbed in the rankings to 19th from 24th in 2011. Somalia remained the world\u2019s most corrupt country, the survey showed, just above North Korea and Afghanistan, all largely failed states where poverty and social chaos result in the repression of human rights, the organization said."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/06\/world\/europe\/oligarchs-play-a-role-in-greeces-economic-troubles.html","body":"ATHENS \u2014 A dynamic entrepreneur, Lavrentis Lavrentiadis seemed to represent a promising new era for Greece. He dazzled the country\u2019s traditionally insular business world by spinning together a multibillion-dollar empire just a few years after inheriting a small family firm at 18. Seeking acceptance in elite circles, he gave lavishly to charities and cultivated ties to the leading political parties.But as Greece\u2019s economy soured in recent years, his fortunes sagged and he began embezzling money from a bank he controlled, prosecutors say. With charges looming, it looked as if his rapid rise would be followed by an equally precipitous fall. Thanks to a law passed quietly by the Greek Parliament, however, he avoided prosecution, at least for a time, simply by paying the money back. Now 40, Mr. Lavrentiadis is back in the spotlight as one of the names on the so-called Lagarde list of more than 2,000 Greeks said to have accounts in a Geneva branch of the bank HSBC and who are suspected of tax evasion. Given to Greek officials two years ago by Christine Lagarde, then the French finance minister and now head of the International Monetary Fund, the list was expected to cast a damning light on the shady practices of the rich. Instead, it was swept under the rug, and now two former finance ministers and Greece\u2019s top tax officials are under investigation for having failed to act. Greece\u2019s economic troubles are often attributed to a public sector packed full of redundant workers, a lavish pension system and uncompetitive industries hampered by overpaid workers with lifetime employment guarantees. Often overlooked, however, is the role played by a handful of wealthy families, politicians and the news media \u2014 often owned by the magnates \u2014 that make up the Greek power structure. In a country crushed by years of austerity and 25 percent unemployment, average Greeks are growing increasingly resentful of an oligarchy that, critics say, presides over an opaque, closed economy that is at the root of many of the country\u2019s problems and operates with virtual impunity. Several dozen powerful families control critical sectors, including banking, shipping and construction, and can usually count on the political class to look out for their interests, sometimes by passing legislation tailored to their specific needs. The result, analysts say, is a lack of competition that undermines the economy by allowing the magnates to run cartels and enrich themselves through crony capitalism. \u201cThat makes it rational for them to form a close, incestuous relationship with politicians and the media, which is then highly vulnerable to corruption,\u201d said Kevin Featherstone, a professor of European Politics at the London School of Economics. This week the anticorruption watchdog Transparency International ranked Greece as the most corrupt nation in Europe, behind former Eastern Bloc states like Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia. Under the pressure of the financial crisis, Greece is being pressed by Germany and its international lenders to make fundamental changes to its economic system in exchange for the money it needs to avoid bankruptcy. But it remains an open question whether Greece\u2019s leaders will be able to engineer such a transformation. In the past year, despite numerous promises to increase transparency, the country actually dropped 14 places from the previous corruption survey. Mr. Lavrentiadis is still facing a host of accusations stemming from hundreds of millions of dollars in loans made by his Proton bank to dormant companies \u2014 sometimes, investigators say, ordering an employee to withdraw the money in bags of cash. But with Greece scrambling to complete a critical bank recapitalization and restructuring, his case is emblematic of a larger battle between Greece\u2019s famously weak institutions and fledgling regulatory structures against these entrenched interests. Many say that the system has to change in order for Greece to emerge from the crisis. \u201cKeeping the status quo will simply prolong the disaster in Greece,\u201d Mr. Featherstone said. While the case of Mr. Lavrentiadis suggests that the status quo is at least under scrutiny, he added, \u201cIt\u2019s not under sufficient attack.\u201d In a nearly two-hour interview, Mr. Lavrentiadis denied accusations of wrongdoing and said that he held \u201ca few accounts\u201d at HSBC in Geneva that totaled only about $65,000, all of it legitimate, taxed income. He also sidestepped questions about his political ties and declined to comment on any details of the continuing investigation into Proton Bank. 1 2 3 Next Page \u00bb This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:Correction: December 6, 2012An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia. Those countries were members of the\u00a0 Eastern Bloc, and what is now Slovakia was part of Czechoslovakia. They are not former Soviet states."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/06\/us\/politics\/jack-brooks-former-texas-congressman-dies-at-89.html","body":"Jack Brooks, an irascible, cigar-chomping former Texas congressman who over 42 years defied fellow Southerners to support civil rights, investigated abuses by Presidents Nixon and Reagan and repeatedly attacked government waste, down to the cost of wrenches, died on Tuesday night in Beaumont, Tex. He was 89.The Jefferson County Sheriff\u2019s Department confirmed his death. Mr. Brooks rose in Congress under the tutelage of two revered Texas Democrats, Speaker Sam Rayburn and Lyndon B. Johnson, both as a senator and as president, and became a swashbuckling Texas character in his own right. His politics were pro-labor, pro-gun, fiercely partisan and boldly unapologetic, particularly when it came to funneling federal funds to his East Texas district. He played a supporting role in one of the most famous news photographs of the 20th century, that of Johnson being sworn in as president on Air Force One in Dallas after President John F. Kennedy was assassinated on Nov. 22, 1963. Mr. Brooks, who had been in the presidential motorcade, stands behind Jacqueline Kennedy. He had run Kennedy\u2019s 1960 presidential campaign in his district, where Kennedy won by 40,000 votes. In October 1963, he was the only one of nine Southerners on the judiciary committee to vote for the Kennedy administration\u2019s civil rights bill. When Johnson took up the bill after Kennedy\u2019s death, Mr. Brooks was one of 11 out of 92 Southerners to vote for it on the House floor in 1964. President Richard M. Nixon, he loathed. Mr. Brooks said he would have voted to impeach him on Jan. 21, 1969, but it \u201cwould not have looked good\u201d to do it the day he was inaugurated, Jan. 20. Five and a half years later, as a ranking member of the judiciary committee, he helped draft the articles of impeachment that prompted Nixon to resign. He was also a leader in the House investigation of President Ronald Reagan for trading arms for the hostages in Iran and using the proceeds to finance the right-leaning contra rebels in Nicaragua. Mr. Brooks\u2019s accomplishments included working to pass laws to revamp government procurement and to require federal agencies to have inspectors general. But he attracted more notice with his highly publicized investigations of the life of light bulbs, the number of coats of paint used on government buildings and airline pilots who let flight attendants fly jetliners. His sharp edge showed in an unsuccessful effort to impeach Reagan, not to mention in his refusal to allow Republicans at luncheons of the Texas Congressional caucus. He ostentatiously puffed his cigars in nonsmoking areas. Mr. Brooks pulled no punches. After John M. Poindexter, Reagan\u2019s national security adviser, and Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams testified to the judiciary committee about the Iran-contra affair, Mr. Brooks called each \u201ca lying son of a bitch.\u201d An aide to Johnson called Mr. Brooks \u201cone of the few men L.B.J. was ever afraid of,\u201d while Nixon labeled him \u201cthe executioner.\u201d Mr. Brooks nurtured a coalition of minority members, labor unions, abortion rights activists and loyal Democrats to win 21 straight Congressional elections. His defeat in the Republican Congressional landslide of 1994 reflected the long, steady rise of well-financed Republicans and anti-abortion organizers, as well as the defection of the Teamsters and some public employees unions. The most proximate cause of his defeat was his antagonizing of the gun lobby by voting for a crime bill that included a ban on 19 firearms as assault weapons. Mr. Brooks had fought vainly to remove the ban, but ultimately voted for the bill approved by the Judiciary Committee, which he led. This left a gaping opening for his Republican opponent, Steve Stockman, a 37-year-old accountant making a third try for the seat. \u201cThe problem that Brooks did was paint himself into a corner, quite frankly,\u201d Mr. Stockman told The Washington Post after the election. \u201cHe sent letters saying, \u2018I will do anything to stop the gun ban.\u2019 1 2 Next Page \u00bb This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:Correction: December 10, 2012An earlier version of this obituary misidentified the county Mr. Brooks was elected to represent in 1946. It was Jefferson County, not Washington County."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/06\/nyregion\/hurricane-sandy-alters-mayoral-campaign-in-nyc.html","body":"This is when the New York City mayor\u2019s race goes off script.After months spent preparing for a race about teacher evaluations, police tactics and other municipal mainstays, City Hall hopefuls are confronting a 2013 contest that has been rewritten, perhaps permanently, by the wrath of Hurricane Sandy. Candidates are facing questions on sea gates and tidal marshes, exotic topics that were never in their briefing books. The minutiae of federal disaster relief is suddenly in the headlines. And the lopsided impact of the storm has opened up a fresh set of class and interborough tensions to navigate and, in some cases, exploit. Aware that crises can be proving grounds for leaders, the candidates are brushing up, meeting with environmental consultants and financial experts. White papers are in the works on recovery and rebuilding efforts along the city\u2019s wounded coastline. In interviews over the past week, the four leading Democratic candidates recalled harrowing tours of the city\u2019s damaged neighborhoods, and emotional encounters with the newly homeless. But even as they comfort storm victims and pitch in with relief efforts, they are mindful that disasters offer potent political moments, chances to telegraph their values ahead of what could be a grueling campaign. Take Bill de Blasio, the city\u2019s public advocate, who is running for mayor with a message of change, arguing that the advances of the Bloomberg years failed to extend to all corners of the city. \u201cRight now, there\u2019s a \u2018Tale of Two Cities\u2019 dynamic,\u201d he said. In the days after Hurricane Sandy hit, Mr. de Blasio, from Park Slope, Brooklyn, took light towers into powerless parts of the Rockaways, where, he said, \u201cpeople felt so profoundly insecure.\u201d \u201cPeople were literally grabbing me by the arm and saying, \u2018Get help to us, no one\u2019s paying attention,\u2019\u00a0\u201d he recalled. Since the storm made landfall, he has repeatedly complained of inequity in the city\u2019s response and suggested that any plans should include as many moral questions as practical ones. \u201cYou can look at this as \u2018We need sea walls,\u2019 or you can look at this as \u2018We need to retool our approach for human security, economic security, for economic equity,\u2019\u00a0\u201d Mr. de Blasio said. \u201cIt\u2019s another version of the larger contrast running through this city in general, where you\u2019ve had, especially in recent years, some neighborhoods struggling and others doing very well.\u201d Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, whose Chelsea apartment lost power for four days, has focused more on the practical challenges left by the storm. She was the first candidate to deliver a major speech on Hurricane Sandy; in it, she encouraged the use of cutting-edge technology to limit damage from future storms. In scope and details, it evoked the approach of her political ally, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, with whom she has worked to identify herself early in the campaign. \u201cIt\u2019s the most important infrastructure project of our time,\u201d Ms. Quinn said. The city, she added, needed leaders who could handle the details: \u201celected officials who can respond and react quickly when things happen on a scale beyond what they had anticipated.\u201d Ms. Quinn was the only major Democratic contender who lost power in the storm, but she, like all the candidates, said her concerns were minor compared with those of people who live in low-lying areas. She noted that her Labrador-hound, Justin, enjoyed living in a darkened neighborhood for a few days, even if his owners did not. \u201cI was like, \u2018Justin, come on: focus, pee and get back in the house\u2019,\u201d she said, laughing. As it often does with Ms. Quinn, the personal overlaps with the political. She and her wife share a beach house in Bradley Beach, N.J., which escaped serious damage thanks to view-obstructing dunes the town built after a damaging hurricane in 1992 \u2014 a useful case study as New York prepares its own preventive measures. \u201cPeople used to bust a little bit on Bradley because you couldn\u2019t see the water from the Boardwalk,\u201d Ms. Quinn said. \u201cBut the dunes did their job. They ended up on the Boardwalk, but they held the water back.\u201d William C. Thompson Jr., a former city comptroller, used Mr. Bloomberg\u2019s early response to the storm to underscore his criticism of a leader he says can be distant and Manhattan-centric. Mr. Thompson attacked Mr. Bloomberg\u2019s initial decision to allow the New York City Marathon to go on just days after the storm \u2014 a decision the mayor reversed. Mr. Thompson also said people in damaged areas complained of neglect. \u201cIt was heartbreaking, where there were people who days and days later felt the city had abandoned them, and really felt that people weren\u2019t listening,\u201d he said, recalling trips to Staten Island and southern Brooklyn. Voters and storm victims alike, Mr. Thompson said, are looking for a mayor \u201cwho can represent the entire city.\u201d Mr. Thompson plans to emphasize his background in municipal finance as a critical skill in working out how to pay for the city\u2019s recovery costs. His campaign is preparing papers on the topic, and he said he planned to consult with Richard Ravitch, a former lieutenant governor who once helped stabilize the finances of the city\u2019s transit system. The only Democratic candidate who is not now an elected official, Mr. Thompson used his own car to get around the city immediately after the storm. At one point, he said, running low on gas, he waited two hours at a station in Harlem, near his home. The current comptroller, John C. Liu, is also planning a populist campaign for mayor, but, in an interview, he emphasized the good deeds he saw in the days after Hurricane Sandy, \u201cthe best of the human spirit shining through,\u201d as he put it. He said he wished there had been more attention paid to the efforts of charities, like the Buddhist Tzu Chi Foundation, which distributed prepaid debit cards to storm victims. \u201cI was at many of the distribution efforts \u2014 people were in tears, tears of joy,\u201d he said. \u201cThey didn\u2019t believe that someone would give them assistance with no hassles.\u201d Mr. Liu suggested that volunteers had had to make up for an inadequate response from the city. But he generally demurred on speaking about the storm in a political light. \u201cHonestly, I have not thought of it in the prism of the campaign,\u201d Mr. Liu said. \u201cWe\u2019ll wait until the actual election year before we get started on that.\u201d"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/06\/science\/earth\/money-issues-thwart-united-nations-climate-talks.html","body":"DOHA, Qatar \u2014 The United Nations climate conference here has settled into its typical doldrums, with most major questions unresolved as a Friday evening deadline for concluding the talks approaches. One of the thorniest issues is money, which has often bedeviled these affairs.Since the process for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change began about 20 years ago, countries have been split into two often-warring camps: the small number of wealthy nations that provide money to help deal with the effects of global warming, and the much larger group of poorer states that receive it. At a climate summit meeting in Copenhagen three years ago, the industrialized countries promised to secure $10 billion a year in funds for adapting to climate change over the following three years and $100 billion a year beginning in 2020. The short-term money has more or less been raised and spent, although some nations have quarreled over whether it was new money or simply repurposed foreign aid. A Green Climate Fund has been established to handle the money after 2020. Left unclear was whether money would flow from 2013 to 2020. That is what negotiators from about 190 countries are fighting about here. And it is a particularly difficult time for the donor nations to find new money. The United States, which traditionally provides about a quarter of such international finance, is teetering on a fiscal precipice, and few in Washington are thinking about finding several billion dollars to help sub-Saharan Africa or precarious island nations cope with drought and rising seas. Jonathan Pershing, the State Department\u2019s deputy special envoy for climate change, said Wednesday that the United States had \u201cevery intention\u201d of finding money for climate adaptation. But he pointedly noted that in the United States, \u201clike most places, the budgeting process is complicated.\u201d Pete Betts, the principal climate negotiator for the European Union, said that Europe would continue to provide climate money. But he, too, noted, \u201cThese are tough financial times, and many states are in difficult circumstances, so we won\u2019t be in a position to state our target for 2015.\u201d This reticence by richer countries annoys the recipient countries, which see it as avoiding responsibility for decades of uncontrolled emissions that now threaten the health of the planet. Some, like Brazil, raise legalistic objections that the wealthier countries promised in previous agreements to provide a steady flow of such financing. Andr\u00e9 Corr\u00eaa do Lago, the chief Brazilian delegate, said, \u201cThere is a very different interpretation between developed and developing countries, which is natural because some are giving the money and some are getting the money.\u201d He said that most developing countries had believed that the roughly $10 billion a year in short-term money would be replaced by a gradual increase until 2020. He said he was sympathetic to the budget problems of Europe and the United States, but he also said that unless the donor countries promised to keep up their support, Brazil and other countries would not allow the negotiating process to go forward. \u201cIf at the end you don\u2019t, it\u2019s a very frustrating exercise,\u201d he said. The most impassioned voices, as usual, are representatives of poor African nations and of low-lying island states threatened with being swamped by rising seas. \u201cPlease, ladies and gentlemen,\u201d the delegate from Nauru, a Pacific island nation, pleaded to the assembly, \u201cshow me on a map which countries you think are expendable.\u201d Todd D. Stern, the senior American diplomat here, said the United States understood the impatience and frustration of its negotiating partners from the developing world. Addressing the conference on Wednesday, he said that different countries had different abilities to cope with a changing climate and to find the money to adapt. He said that the United States was willing to discuss the concepts of equity and \u201ccommon but differentiated responsibilities,\u201d terms that carry heavy emotional and historical baggage at these gatherings. In what was read by many here as a shift in tone, Mr. Stern said that such notions would be central to the outcome of a new global climate change treaty that is supposed to be concluded by 2015 and take effect in 2020 under an agreement reached in Durban, South Africa, a year ago. \u201cThe United States would welcome such a discussion, because unless we can find common ground on that principle and the way in which it should apply in the world of the 2020s, we won\u2019t succeed in producing a new Durban Platform agreement,\u201d Mr. Stern said. \u201cAnd we have to succeed.\u201d This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:Correction: December 8, 2012An article on Thursday about international climate change negotiations in Doha, Qatar, referred imprecisely to a pledge made by industrialized countries three years ago to help poorer nations adjust to climate change. While the countries agreed to secure funds, a mix of government and private financing, for that purpose, they did not agree to provide directly all of the money pledged."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/06\/health\/antismoking-outlays-drop-despite-tobacco-revenue.html","body":"Faced with tight budgets, states have spent less on tobacco prevention over the past two years than in any period since the national tobacco settlement in 1998, despite record high revenues from the settlement and tobacco taxes, according to a report to be released on Thursday.States are on track to collect a record $25.7 billion in tobacco taxes and settlement money in the current fiscal year, but they are set to spend less than 2 percent of that on prevention, according to the report, by the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, which compiles the revenue data annually. The figures come from state appropriations for the fiscal year ending in June. The settlement awarded states an estimated $246 billion over its first 25 years. It gave states complete discretion over the money, and many use it for programs unrelated to tobacco or to plug budget holes. Public health experts say it lacks a mechanism for ensuring that some portion of the money is set aside for tobacco prevention and cessation programs. \u201cThere weren\u2019t even gums, let alone teeth,\u201d Timothy McAfee, the director of the Office on Smoking and Health at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said, referring to the allocation of funds for tobacco prevention and cessation in the terms of the settlement. Spending on tobacco prevention peaked in 2002 at $749 million, 63 percent above the level this year. After six years of declines, spending ticked up again in 2008, only to fall by 36 percent during the recession, the report said. Tobacco use is the No. 1 cause of preventable death in the United States, killing more than 400,000 Americans every year, according to the C.D.C. The report did not count federal money for smoking prevention, which Vince Willmore, the vice president for communications at the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, estimated to be about $522 million for the past four fiscal years. The sum \u2014 about $130 million a year \u2014 was not enough to bring spending back to earlier levels. The $500 million a year that states spend on tobacco prevention is a tiny fraction of the $8 billion a year that tobacco companies spend to market their products, according to a Federal Trade Commission report in September. Nationally, 19 percent of adults smoke, down from over 40 percent in 1965. But rates remain high for less-educated Americans. Twenty-seven percent of Americans with only a high school diploma smoke, compared with just 8 percent of those with a college degree or higher, according to C.D.C. data from 2010. The highest rate \u2014 34 percent \u2014 was among black men who did not graduate from high school. \u201cSmoking used to be the rich man\u2019s habit,\u201d said Danny McGoldrick, the vice president for research at the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, \u201cand now it\u2019s decidedly a poor person\u2019s behavior.\u201d Aggressive antismoking programs are the main tools that cities and states have to reach the demographic groups in which smoking rates are the highest, making money to finance them even more critical, Mr. McGoldrick said. The decline in spending comes amid growing certainty among public health officials that antismoking programs, like help lines and counseling, actually work. California went from having a smoking rate above the national average 20 years ago to having the second-lowest rate in the country after modest but consistent spending on programs that help people quit and prevent children from starting, Dr. McAfee said. An analysis by Washington State, cited in the report, found that it saved $5 in tobacco-related hospitalization costs for every $1 spent during the first 10 years of its program. Budget cuts have eviscerated some of the most effective tobacco prevention programs, the report said. This year, state financing for North Carolina\u2019s program has been eliminated. Washington State\u2019s program has been cut by about 90 percent in recent years, and for the third year in a row, Ohio has not allocated any state money for what was once a successful program, the report said."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/06\/world\/africa\/african-union-asks-united-nations-to-finance-intervention-in-mali.html","body":"The African Union appealed on Wednesday for the United Nations to pay for a military operation to combat Islamist extremists in northern Mali after the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, cautiously recommended that the Security Council approve the force without financing it. Mali descended into chaos in March when soldiers toppled the president, leaving a power vacuum that enabled rebels to seize two-thirds of the country. Islamist extremists, some allied with Al Qaeda, have hijacked the revolt. The African Union observer to the United Nations, Antonio Tete, told the 15-member Security Council that the deployment and operations of an African force of 3,300 troops would need money from the United Nations \u201cto ensure sustained and predictable support to the mission.\u201d Diplomats said the African Union and France, the most vocal Western backer of a plan for African troops to retake northern Mali, were angry that Mr. Ban had not offered United Nations financing."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/05\/business\/global\/the-next-crisis-for-german-banks-isnt-greece-its-shipping.html","body":"FRANKFURT \u2014 For all the talk about Germany\u2019s financial exposure to Greece, it turns out that some German banks have a problem of more titanic proportions \u2014 their vulnerability to the global shipping trade. Germany\u2019s 10 largest banks have 98 billion euros, or $128 billion, in outstanding credit or other risks related to the global shipping industry, according to Moody\u2019s Investors Service. That is more than double the value of their holdings of government debt from Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. And it is more than any other country\u2019s financial exposure to the shipping industry, which is in the fifth year of a recession. Moreover, German banks bear a generous share of the blame for spawning that recession. By helping to finance and market funds used to build and buy ships, a popular tax shelter, the banks helped create a glut in large container ships that has led to a collapse in cargo hauling prices worldwide. Germans grumble chronically about having to pay for Greece\u2019s bad debts, and German policy makers style themselves as guardians of fiscal prudence. But the shipping-related crisis, and the threat it poses to the German economy from billions of euros in bad loans and losses at shipping-related companies, is a reminder that German banks and political leaders also have plenty to answer for. The recession in shipping has been overshadowed by the euro zone debt crisis, but it has many of the same causes. They include complex financial products that turned sour, market-distorting government incentives and a gigantic underestimation of risk. \u201cThe container ship market is completely overbuilt,\u201d said Thomas Mattheis, a partner at TPW Todt, an accounting firm in Hamburg that advises clients in the industry. He attributed the situation to banks that granted easy credit, cargo companies that ordered too many vessels and investors eager for the tax-free profits that were part of the allure, thanks to German law. \u201cWhen you look back you can say they all had a share,\u201d Mr. Mattheis said. HSH Nordbank in Hamburg, the world\u2019s largest provider of maritime finance, is expected to raise its estimate of potential losses from shipping on Wednesday when it reports quarterly earnings. The bank, owned by local governments and savings banks, has already warned that in coming years it will need to avail itself of 1.3 billion euros in guarantees offered by Hamburg and the state of Schleswig-Holstein, putting a further strain on taxpayers. \u201cI have to admit that grave mistakes were made in the years before 2009,\u201d Constantin von Oesterreich, chief executive of HSH, said in an interview published on Saturday by The Hamburger Abendblatt. In October, Mr. von Oesterreich became the bank\u2019s third chief executive since 2008. Other German banks that were particularly active in ship finance, including Commerzbank in Frankfurt and NordLB in Hanover, which both rank in the top five globally in that market, have said they have made adequate provisions for losses and will not need any government aid. Commerzbank, which is partly owned by the German government after a bailout, shut down a unit specializing in ship financing this year and is winding down its holdings. The bank warned in its most recent quarterly report that it would be at least another year before it could sell units that were set up to finance construction of cargo ships with names including Marseille and Palermo. While larger, relatively new cargo ships sell for tens of millions of dollars, older, smaller ships often fetch only a few million \u2014 not much more than the value of the scrap metal. Exposure to shipping is one reason Moody\u2019s affirmed its negative outlook for German banks last month. In a report, the ratings agency warned that the global shipping industry \u201cfaces weakened demand amid sluggish global economic growth and evolving structural overcapacity.\u201d It said money that the 10 largest German banks had lent to the shipping industry equaled 60 percent of their capital, the funds held in reserve for potential losses. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/05\/business\/global\/daily-euro-zone-watch.html","body":"BRUSSELS \u2014 Finance ministers of the European Union were deadlocked Tuesday over how to create a single banking supervisor for the euro zone, delaying a decision on a new system that is supposed to prevent future financial crises.The ministers agreed to reconvene next week, a day ahead of a summit meeting of European Union leaders who had been hoping to focus discussion on the design of a banking union \u2014 something the leaders agreed last summer to establish as a way to safeguard the industry after member countries racked up enormous debts bailing out their banks. That agreement in June had called for setting up the single regulator under the European Central Bank. And the bloc\u2019s administrative arm, the European Commission, has proposed phasing in the system beginning Jan. 1. But the deadlock on Tuesday indicated that there was sharp disagreement among member states over how many banks in the euro currency union should be covered by the new system; how to ensure that countries outside the currency union have a way to rebuff regulations they dislike; and how to ensure that the European Central Bank would keep monetary policy separate from its decisions on bank supervision. After ministers failed to reach agreement Tuesday during their regular monthly meeting, Vassos Shiarly, the finance minister of Cyprus, the country holding the Union\u2019s rotating presidency, set another session for Dec. 12. If ministers fail to reach agreement at that meeting, the E.U. leaders will arrive at their summit meeting the following day without a cornerstone in place for the banking union. One of the goals for the union could eventually be to issue debt jointly backed by euro zone countries, as a way to buffer the sort of interest rate spikes that have often bedeviled weaker countries, including Spain. Some ministers warned on Tuesday that further delays in designing the banking union could lead to a return of acute financial pressures in the euro zone. \u201cIf we are not able to deliver in the dates we have committed, this will not be neutral in terms of the stability of the markets,\u201d said Luis de Guindos, the Spanish economy minister. For Spain, stricter supervision was supposed to be the condition for using European funds to bail out its troubled banks directly and a way to avoid accumulating more sovereign debt. Once the supervisor is in place, Spain wants the money it is drawing upon for its bailout to be moved off its government ledgers. But France and Germany remained divided over the new banking rules on Tuesday. That is a significant obstacle because agreement between the two countries usually is needed to accomplish major reforms in Europe. Pierre Moscovici, the French finance minister, told the meeting that the new rules should apply to all lenders rather than lead to a two-tier system. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has suggested that the system could eventually apply to all 6,000 banks in the euro zone. But some German officials and industry groups would rather have the new centralized oversight apply only to the biggest European banks, and leave regulation of the country's smaller savings banks in the hands of national officials. French officials have stressed the need for a system that covers all euro zone banks. Otherwise, the French have warned, any sudden intervention by the E.C.B. into the affairs of a bank under national regulation could raise alarm among investors and depositors and even lead to bank runs. But Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, the German finance minister, said Tuesday that trying to give too much central authority to a new banking regulator would meet stiff political opposition in his country. \u201cI think it would be very difficult to get an approval by the German Parliament if you would leave the supervision for all the German banks to European banking supervision,\u201d Mr. Sch\u00e4uble told the meeting. \u201cNobody believes that any European institution will be capable to supervise 6,000 banks in Europe.\u201d The government in Berlin has complained that overly rapid implementation of the rules could lead to regulatory loopholes. German state governments also have balked at giving the central bank oversight of their sparkassen, the hundreds of small and midsize savings banks that do much of the lending to consumers and small businesses. Germany also refused to support one of the main British demands: new voting rules to ensure that lenders based in London continue to be regulated by Britain. Yet another concern for Mr. Sch\u00e4uble was whether placing so much supervisory power within the European Central Bank could lead the central bank to compromise its decisions on monetary policy \u2014 if, for example, the E.C.B. were setting interest rates while also trying to oversee politically sensitive issues like bank bailouts. \u201cIn the long run, you will damage the independence of the central bank,\u201d Mr. Sch\u00e4uble told the meeting. Germany is the biggest financial contributor to the European Union, and establishing the single supervisory system could oblige Ms. Merkel to dip into the treasury to help prop up weaker European banks, like many of those in Spain. Such aid could be an issue for German taxpayers, ahead of national elections in their country next September. German citizens have already grown weary of paying most of the bill for bailouts, and they are wary of using more money to help banks in vulnerable southern European countries. Another issue to be resolved in coming weeks will be the leadership of the group of ministers who oversee the euro area. Jean-Claude Juncker, who has been the group's president since 2005, reiterated at a news conference Monday night that he would step down at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year. But he declined to signal his preference for any particular successor to the post, which gives the holder significant power over the agendas of their meetings."}][{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/05\/opinion\/how-cities-can-save-china.html","body":"CHINA is experiencing its most severe economic downturn in decades, and revitalizing its economic model is critical to future prosperity \u2014 not only in China, but around the world.Central to that effort is the transformation of China\u2019s cities. By adopting a new approach to urbanization, its leaders can assure more balanced investment, address a major source of debt, achieve a consumption windfall and clean up the country\u2019s environment. Otherwise, China\u2019s economic and environmental problems will worsen, with vast implications for the rest of the world. China\u2019s success has been built on two pillars: investment and exports. But after decades of growth, this model is delivering diminishing returns. There is little doubt that China must change to a new model, one that relies on consumption to generate growth, while addressing debt and broadening the use of sustainable energy and environmental practices. Cities, home to hundreds of millions of Chinese consumers, lie at the core of this problem \u2014 and offer a potential solution. A flawed system of municipal finance is driving debt, corruption and dissent, while unsustainable urban planning has yielded polluted cities that are destroying China\u2019s ecosystem. Yet China\u2019s future requires continued urbanization, which, absent a new approach, will only make the problem worse. Cities can, however, be part of the solution: better urban policies can put China on a healthier path forward, economically and environmentally. For one thing, municipal financial reform is essential because debt is crushing Chinese cities, leaving mayors with no means of financing the central government\u2019s policy mandates. Mayors have developed creative ways to raise revenues, including appropriating farmers\u2019 land and seizing land on the outskirts of cities to sell to developers. But these practices contribute to urban sprawl and often feed corruption. Among other changes, China\u2019s cities need transparent budgets and the devolution of more tax authority to cities. More innovative urban planning and design are also needed. To achieve the country\u2019s goals of raising living standards for a broader share of the population, cities must be better designed to yield energy efficiency and environmental sustainability. China\u2019s potential is stifled by traffic and pollution. Gazing out my hotel window in Beijing on a recent trip, I saw air that was hazy and polluted \u2014 a stark contrast to the sparkling view of Lake Michigan I enjoy from my kitchen window at home in Chicago. This isn\u2019t just China\u2019s problem. Experts found that dirty air from China contributed up to 20 percent of the ground-level pollution on the American West Coast in 2010. And that is when just one-tenth of Chinese own cars. Imagine what China\u2019s air quality will become when this number triples, as some experts predict it will within the next several years. Take another example: construction. Within city centers are countless \u201csuperblocks\u201d \u2014 half-kilometer-square developments interspersed with huge boulevards that create monster traffic jams and skyrocketing pollution. In response, an approach that featured smaller blocks and mixed-use neighborhoods and accessible public transportation would alleviate these unintended consequences. Such \u201clivable cities\u201d would balance economic development with energy efficiency, improve air quality and reduce congestion. Getting China\u2019s urbanization right will matter to us all. Fortunately, many in China understand this, and cooperation with the United States government, corporate world and nonprofit sector, including my own research and advocacy institute, is bringing them the tools they need to prioritize design issues in their cities and adapt infrastructure plans now. These tools include instruction in sustainable practices for government leaders, public education in environmental issues and specialized training for the country\u2019s urban planners. China must adopt this new approach quickly, before vast infrastructure investment makes the current model irreversible. By 2025, China is projected to have a staggering 200 cities with populations over one million. America has just nine. Global prosperity depends on China\u2019s continuing to be an engine of growth. We all need China to reinvent its economic model. Working together on urbanization creates progress toward joint solutions to the challenges the world faces from overwhelming pressure on natural ecosystems, resources and commodities. We need Chinese cities to succeed, and we can help ensure that they do so. Henry M. Paulson Jr., a former chief executive of Goldman Sachs and Treasury secretary, is the chairman of the Paulson Institute."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/05\/nyregion\/malcolm-smith-defects-joining-dissenting-democrats.html","body":"New York Republicans joined forces with a group of dissident Democrats on Tuesday to form what they called a \u201cbipartisan governing coalition\u201d to run the State Senate, preventing the Democratic Party from taking control even after it appeared to have won a majority of Senate seats in elections last month.The announcement was the latest twist in a state capital that has had more than its share in recent years, with a string of leadership squabbles, corruption investigations and sex scandals that at times crippled the government and made Albany a laughingstock. The power-sharing deal announced Tuesday was a victory for New York Republicans, who are outnumbered 2-to-1 in the state\u2019s electorate and who fared unexpectedly poorly in a series of Senate races last month. The exact outcome of the election remains unclear, because ballots in two close races are still being counted, but the consensus in Albany is that the Democrats won more seats than the Republicans. But shortly after the elections, one Democrat said he would align himself with the Republicans, and on Tuesday five others said they would join with the Republicans to control the Senate. Many of the remaining Senate Democrats were furious, accusing the Republicans and the breakaway Democrats of orchestrating a coup to steal control. As part of the deal, the Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, a Long Island Republican, agreed to share authority over the chamber with Senator Jeffrey D. Klein, a Bronx Democrat who was the No. 2 official in his caucus before defecting nearly two years ago to form the Independent Democratic Conference. With the new coalition, the leaders of the Republican and the Independent Democratic conferences would have \u201cjoint and equal authority\u201d over bills that the Senate takes up, committee assignments, appointments and state budget negotiations. Albany\u2019s famous \u201cthree men in a room\u201d \u2014 the governor, the Assembly speaker and the Senate majority leader, who negotiate the state budget and major legislation \u2014 would become a quartet. Mr. Skelos and Mr. Klein would also take turns, alternating every two weeks as temporary president of the Senate, a position defined in the State Constitution that is next in the gubernatorial line of succession after the lieutenant governor. In an interview, Mr. Klein said Senate Republicans had committed to allowing floor votes on a number of critical measures for which Democrats had unsuccessfully pushed when Republicans had an outright majority. \u201cWorking with the governor and our colleagues, I know that we will pass some major progressive reforms, such as an increase to the minimum wage, a reform of stop-and-frisk and serious campaign finance reform,\u201d Mr. Klein said. \u201cI\u2019m extremely confident that these issues will come to the Senate floor for a vote and I fully expect them to pass the Senate.\u201d Mr. Skelos said in a statement, \u201cSenator Klein has proven to be a thoughtful and effective leader, and I look forward to partnering with him to move this state forward.\u201d But a spokesman for the Senate Democrats, Mike Murphy, called the deal between Mr. Skelos and Mr. Klein \u201cnot a coalition but a coup against all New Yorkers who voted for Democratic control of the Senate and a progressive state government.\u201d The announcement follows a month of uncertainty about who would be in control. After Democrats stunned Republicans on Election Day by winning several close races, Republicans improved their odds at keeping control by persuading one newly elected Democrat, Simcha Felder of Brooklyn, to side with their caucus. At the same time, Mr. Klein and his three fellow Independent Democrats resisted calls to reunite behind a Democratic majority leader, and instead pushed behind the scenes to form a coalition with the Republicans. They also recruited an additional Democrat to their caucus, Malcolm A. Smith of Queens, a former leader of the Senate Democrats who has sought support from Republicans for a possible run for mayor of New York City. The Independent Democrats and Mr. Smith talked through the arrangement over a recent lunch of fried meatballs with peppers and onions at Enzo\u2019s in the Morris Park section of the Bronx. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat who over the last two years has successfully worked with the Senate Republicans to win passage of some elements of his agenda, has angered some members of his own party by not advocating Democratic control of the Senate. On Tuesday, the governor\u2019s spokesman called the Senate leadership battle \u201can internal legislative matter.\u201d \u201cThe most important thing is to have a functional Senate that passes the governor\u2019s progressive agenda to advance the State of New York,\u201d said the spokesman, Josh Vlasto. \u201cThe governor will withhold judgment until he sees how the Senate functions and acts on critical issues facing the state.\u201d And Mayor Stephanie A. Miner of Syracuse, who was installed by the governor as the state Democratic Party\u2019s co-chairwoman, was optimistic, calling the coalition \u201ca pathway out of dysfunction.\u201d"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/05\/business\/energy-environment\/to-fight-climate-change-college-students-take-aim-at-the-endowment-portfolio.html","body":"SWARTHMORE, Pa. \u2014 A group of Swarthmore College students is asking the school administration to take a seemingly simple step to combat pollution and climate change: sell off the endowment\u2019s holdings in large fossil fuel companies. For months, they have been getting a simple answer: no.As they consider how to ratchet up their campaign, the students suddenly find themselves at the vanguard of a national movement. In recent weeks, college students on dozens of campuses have demanded that university endowment funds rid themselves of coal, oil and gas stocks. The students see it as a tactic that could force climate change, barely discussed in the presidential campaign, back onto the national political agenda. \u201cWe\u2019ve reached this point of intense urgency that we need to act on climate change now, but the situation is bleaker than it\u2019s ever been from a political perspective,\u201d said William Lawrence, a Swarthmore senior from East Lansing, Mich. Students who have signed on see it as a conscious imitation of the successful effort in the 1980s to pressure colleges and other institutions to divest themselves of the stocks of companies doing business in South Africa under apartheid. A small institution in Maine, Unity College, has already voted to get out of fossil fuels. Another, Hampshire College in Massachusetts, has adopted a broad investment policy that is ridding its portfolio of fossil fuel stocks. \u201cIn the near future, the political tide will turn and the public will demand action on climate change,\u201d Stephen Mulkey, the Unity College president, wrote in a letter to other college administrators. \u201cOur students are already demanding action, and we must not ignore them.\u201d But at colleges with large endowments, many administrators are viewing the demand skeptically, saying it would undermine their goal of maximum returns in support of education. Fossil fuel companies represent a significant portion of the stock market, comprising nearly 10 percent of the value of the Russell 3000, a broad index of 3,000 American companies. No school with an endowment exceeding $1 billion has agreed to divest itself of fossil fuel stocks. At Harvard, which holds the largest endowment in the country at $31 billion, the student body recently voted to ask the school to do so. With roughly half the undergraduates voting, 72 percent of them supported the demand. \u201cWe always appreciate hearing from students about their viewpoints, but Harvard is not considering divesting from companies related to fossil fuels,\u201d Kevin Galvin, a university spokesman, said by e-mail. Several organizations have been working on some version of a divestment campaign, initially focusing on coal, for more than a year. But the recent escalation has largely been the handiwork of a grass-roots organization, 350.org, that focuses on climate change, and its leader, Bill McKibben, a writer turned advocate. The group\u2019s name is a reference to what some scientists see as a maximum safe level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, 350 parts per million. The level is now about 390, an increase of 41 percent since before the Industrial Revolution. Mr. McKibben is touring the country by bus, speaking at sold-out halls and urging students to begin local divestment initiatives focusing on 200 energy companies. Many of the students attending said they were inspired to do so by an article he wrote over the summer in Rolling Stone magazine, \u201cGlobal Warming\u2019s Terrifying New Math.\u201d Speaking recently to an audience at the University of Vermont, Mr. McKibben painted the fossil fuel industry as an enemy that must be defeated, arguing that it had used money and political influence to block climate action in Washington. \u201cThis is no different than the tobacco industry \u2014 for years, they lied about the dangers of their industry,\u201d Mr. McKibben said. Eric Wohlschlegel, a spokesman for the American Petroleum Institute, said that continued use of fossil fuels was essential for the country\u2019s economy, but that energy companies were investing heavily in ways to emit less carbon dioxide. In an interview, Mr. McKibben said he recognized that a rapid transition away from fossil fuels would be exceedingly difficult. But he said strong government policies to limit emissions were long overdue, and were being blocked in part by the political power of the incumbent industry. Mr. McKibben\u2019s goal is to make owning the stocks of these companies disreputable, in the way that owning tobacco stocks has become disreputable in many quarters. Many colleges will not buy them, for instance. Mr. McKibben has laid out a series of demands that would get the fuel companies off 350.org\u2019s blacklist. He wants them to stop exploring for new fossil fuels, given that they have already booked reserves about five times as large as scientists say society can afford to burn. He wants them to stop lobbying against emission policies in Washington. And he wants them to help devise a transition plan that will leave most of their reserves in the ground while encouraging lower-carbon energy sources. \u201cThey need more incentive to make the transition that they must know they need to make, from fossil fuel companies to energy companies,\u201d Mr. McKibben said. Most college administrations, at the urging of their students, have been taking global warming seriously for years, spending money on steps like cutting energy consumption and installing solar panels. The divestment demand is so new that most administrators are just beginning to grapple with it. Several of them, in interviews, said that even though they tended to agree with students on the seriousness of the problem, they feared divisive boardroom debates on divestment. That was certainly the case in the 1980s, when the South African divestment campaign caused bitter arguments across the nation. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb Brent Summers contributed reporting from Burlington, Vt."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/05\/realestate\/commercial\/houstons-boom-is-led-by-the-energy-industry.html","body":"HOUSTON \u2014 Even first-time visitors here can tell that the city is growing rapidly. Construction cranes overhang office and apartment sites all along the Katy Freeway, a stretch of Interstate 10 that connects a string of booming submarkets west of the 610 Loop. This expanse includes the Westchase neighborhood and the Energy Corridor, home to an expanding cluster of energy companies. The energy sector drives job growth and all manner of business activity here, with the greatest demand for office space concentrated in the west side where oil and gas companies are clustered, in the medical center just south of the central business district and in the Woodlands, a master-planned community 27 miles north of downtown. \u201cHouston is clearly a growth leader,\u201d said Walter Page, director of office research at Property and Portfolio Research in Boston. \u201cIt was the first major economy in the U.S. to register more jobs than it lost in the recession.\u201d Employment here is up 3.7 percent since August 2008, when it peaked before declining during the recession. That compares with New York\u2019s gain of just 0.7 percent from its peak in April 2008 before declining, Mr. Page said. The city\u2019s office vacancy rate was 11.9 percent in the third quarter, down from 13.4 percent a year earlier, according to the CoStar Group, a real estate research firm in Washington. Developers are creating new space to meet that strong demand, completing 15 major office buildings in the first three quarters of this year alone. Of the 3.9 million square feet of office space under construction, more than 90 percent is in the western submarkets or in the Woodlands, Mr. Page said. The energy sector accounts for 3.4 percent of the city\u2019s employment, more than five times the national average of 0.6 percent, Mr. Page said. Despite that heavy concentration, the rest of the city\u2019s economy is diverse and helps spread the wealth that energy brings into the community to other sectors. Brisk commercial real estate sales reflect investor interest in the market. This year, an affiliate of the Houston-based Enterprise Products Company bought the Shell Plaza, a 1.8 million-square-foot office complex in the central business district, for $550 million, CoStar reported. The seller was a fund operated by Hines, a Houston-based developer that built the property in the 1970s. Last year, Shell renewed its leases for nearly 1.3 million square feet at Shell Plaza. Hines developed much of the city\u2019s commercial real estate. Today the company\u2019s projects here include multifamily construction in the shadow of office buildings that it developed in the Galleria, a group of office towers, hotels and retail on the southwestern rim of Loop 610, with a skyline that rivals downtown\u2019s. Mark Cover, Hines\u2019s chief executive for the southwest region, said that energy, the medical center and the Port of Houston are the three largest engines driving the economy here. \u201cThe global energy industry is headquartered here,\u201d he said. \u201cIt\u2019s not just oil and gas, it\u2019s alternatives, too. Intellectual capital in the energy field is heavily concentrated here.\u201d In the only major city in the United States without zoning laws, developers can, in theory, build virtually anything, anywhere in the city. In practice, however, understanding and catering to local industries is a critical element in site selection, Mr. Cover says. \u201cWhen you really get down to it, the city is market-zoned, because land prices are not based on zoning rights, they\u2019re based on purely capitalistic, highest and best use value,\u201d he said. \u201cIf you build the wrong product or build in the wrong place, the market is going to severely punish you.\u201d Market forces shape the city\u2019s development in hubs, says Jim Knight, who heads land development in Texas for Bury & Partners, an Austin-based engineering firm. Refineries and distribution centers cluster near the port, while energy companies and other major employers tend to establish a presence, either downtown or in a submarket, and stick to that area indefinitely. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/05\/realestate\/commercial\/the-30-minute-interview-mitchell-roschelle.html","body":"Mr. Roschelle, 51, is national practice leader and a founder of the real estate advisory practice of the American unit of the accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers. Mr. Roschelle, who is also a partner in the firm, helped establish the practice in 1986, with four others.Interview conducted and condensed by VIVIAN MARINO Q. Tell me a little bit about the practice. A. The practice has about 100 professionals across the country. We\u2019re in New York, Boston, Philadelphia, South Florida, Chicago, Los Angeles and San Francisco. There are seven partners, in addition to four managing directors, and we cover the real estate asset class from single-family residential to big office. What we do really depends on the market needs, but it includes due diligence, financial advisory and strategic portfolio performance reviews. Our specialty is analysis. We don\u2019t compete against the brokerage community \u2014 we don\u2019t have any vested interest in the outcome of a transaction. Q. What is your main role there? A. I get involved in recruiting and retaining our people and our clients. Q. Who are your clients? A. It\u2019s mostly institutional. They tend to be the big pension funds that invest in real estate or advisers to the pension funds and REITs. But I do have entrepreneurial clients. J. P. Morgan Investment Management and Starwood Capital, GE Capital, NorthStar Realty Finance and Ogden CAP Properties are examples of clients. Q. How is business? A. It\u2019s very good. There are two ways of answering the question. One, the real estate asset class couldn\u2019t be positioned better in an economy like now, so there\u2019s a tremendous amount of capital formed to invest in real estate, which is good for our business. And then because there are some markets where prices are at prerecession levels, there are clients looking to take money off the table, so there\u2019s selling of assets. There\u2019s a lot of transaction activity, which is good for our practice. What\u2019s interesting is, if things are terrible and there are bankruptcies and disputes between parties, we do well. If things are going gangbusters like they were in \u201906, we do well. The only time we\u2019re slow is when there\u2019s a lot of indecision in the market. Q. Like during the recession. A. But interestingly enough, when that went on in \u201908 and \u201909, valuation was a tremendous issue and valuation is a big part of our practice. Financial instruments were hard to valuate; hard real estate was a little bit easier. Q. How would you categorize 2012? A. Coming out of the recession the big gateway cities were the ones that performed best. That included New York, Washington, San Francisco, Boston, Chicago and Los Angeles. That\u2019s where investors were willing to take risks. You had diverse employment base, better leased buildings, less risk of a double-dip micro recession. So that\u2019s where we were \u2014 and 2012 was a continuation of that. Apartments were the darling real estate subsector. But what happened in 2012 was we saw apartment cap rates get too low in some of those markets \u2014 south of 5 percent \u2014 and so investors were looking to invest outside apartments and outside the gateway cities. We started seeing in 2012 an interest in the office asset class, the industrial asset class, and a little bit more interest in retail. Q. Are there regions of the country where you see future growth? A. The other 45 markets that are covered in our investors survey look like that\u2019s where all the opportunities are \u2014 whether it be Raleigh-Durham, N.C.; Texas markets like Austin, Houston and Dallas; Seattle; and Denver. None of them is radically overbuilt from an office or apartment perspective. What\u2019s also interesting is those markets have a high percentage of echo boomers in their population \u2014 the 25- to 34-year-olds. That\u2019s who\u2019s going to buy a house in the future, who\u2019s going to work in an office or retail or warehouse, or shop in retail. Q. Let\u2019s talk about your recently released 2013 Emerging Trends Survey of investors. A. One cool thing: We asked the 900 participants what they think their prospects are for profitability for the real estate asset class, and we intentionally don\u2019t define profitability \u2014 93.1 percent felt that 2013 would be fair or better from a profitability perspective. That\u2019s up almost seven or eight percentage points from last year. There isn\u2019t a lot of overbuilding in this country, so all of the stock that was created in the wake of the boom leading up to 2006-2007 \u2014 that\u2019s in the process of being absorbed. Housing has turned a corner. The challenge we have in our country is in our job re-creation. Q. Do you personally invest in real estate? A. I have a home. That\u2019s it."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/05\/pageoneplus\/corrections-december-5-2012.html","body":"FRONT PAGE An article on Nov. 22 about a personal connection forged between President Obama and President Mohamed Morsi of Egypt during their discussions of what could be done to stop the latest deadly fighting between Israel and the Palestinian militant group Hamas misstated, in some editions, the given name of the director of the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution, who had been Mr. Obama\u2019s deputy assistant secretary of state for the Middle East until earlier this year. She is Tamara Cofman Wittes, not Teresa. INTERNATIONAL Because of an editing error, an article on Tuesday about President Obama\u2019s calling on Russia to renew the nuclear disarmament program known as the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program referred incorrectly in some editions to one of the officials for whom the program is named. Richard J. Lugar, a Republican from Indiana, is a senator until his successor is sworn in on Jan. 3; he is not a former senator. (As the article noted, Mr. Lugar lost in a primary this year.) \u2022 An article on Monday about a news account published on Sunday by several state-run media outlets in China \u2014 and then deleted from their Web sites \u2014 referred incorrectly in some editions to the 10 men who the Chinese media said had been rounded up by the Beijing Municipal Public Safety Bureau. They were retrievers, who were said to have illegally detained a group of citizens who had traveled to Beijing to lodge complaints about official malfeasance in their hometown in central Henan Province; they were not the petitioners bringing the complaints. NATIONAL The Debt Reckoning column on Tuesday, about a budget proposal by a group of prominent Democrats, described incorrectly one element of the group\u2019s plan. It calls for replacing itemized deductions for mortgage interest, not mortgage insurance. \u2022 An article on Tuesday about a spate of bad weather in New England that has undercut the sense of pride that residents there usually have for the region\u2019s beautiful trees described incorrectly the incident that set off a cascade of events causing a blackout in 2003 in eight states and in Canada. It began when an overgrown tree made contact with a transmission line in Ohio; it did not begin when a tree fell on the line. BUSINESS DAY A chart on Nov. 23 with the High & Low Finance column, about the overhaul of the tax code in the Reagan administration as a potential model for today\u2019s lawmakers, reversed the labels on two line graphs. The graph to the left should have been labeled Qualified Dividends and the one to the right Capital Gains. A corrected chart can be found at nytimes.com\/businessday. \u2022 An article on Tuesday about business strategies of generic drug makers in the face of fewer drug patent expirations misidentified the country in which the pharmaceutical company Endo is based. It is in the United States, not Japan. WEEKEND A dance entry in the Listings pages on Friday about the next edition of Splice, a series for emerging choreographers at Dance New Amsterdam in Lower Manhattan, referred incorrectly to Kendra Portier, whose work \u201cBeautiful Weather for an Air Raid\u201d is being performed. She is still a dancer with David Dorfman Dance, not a former member of the company. \u00a0 The Times welcomes comments and suggestions, or complaints about errors that warrant correction. Messages on news coverage can be e-mailed to nytnews@nytimes.com or left toll-free at 1-888-NYT-NEWS (1-888-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be e-mailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622. Readers dissatisfied with a response or concerned about the paper\u2019s journalistic integrity may reach the public editor at public@nytimes.com or (212) 556-7652. For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or e-mail customercare@nytimes.com."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/04\/us\/louisiana-voucher-programs-financing-is-ruled-unconstitutional.html","body":"NEW ORLEANS \u2014 Last January, Gov. Bobby Jindal took the oath of office for his second term, declaring in his inauguration speech that anyone who stood in the way of his education reform efforts \u201cmust stand down.\u201d On Friday, a judge in Baton Rouge said, in effect: not so fast.Judge Timothy Kelley of State District Court ruled that the way in which the state finances its new voucher program violates the state Constitution, as it relies on money intended in \u201cplain and unambiguous\u201d terms solely for public schools. In a statement, Governor Jindal called the decision \u201cwrongheaded and a travesty for parents across Louisiana\u201d and vowed to appeal. But it was not the crippling setback it could have been. \u201cAs court rulings go, there are some that create giant brick walls and there are some that create small fences,\u201d said Michael Griffith, a school finance consultant for the Education Commission of the States, a policy organization. \u201cThis is a small fence.\u201d What the court fight did show, Mr. Griffith added, is the evolving nature of the voucher debate, and the variety of problems state-run voucher programs have run into. \u201cIt\u2019s a symptom of what we\u2019re seeing nationally,\u201d he said. \u201cGroups that are opposing vouchers using every sort of tool that they can,\u201d from broader challenges on the nature of public education to technical, state-specific arguments like the one that prevailed on Friday. Voucher opponents in some other states have successfully argued that vouchers violate constitutional bans on money going to religious schools, while others have contended that redirecting more to private schools would leave the public education system inadequately financed. The ruling on Friday was just about how a state pays for it. Even a lawyer for one of the teachers\u2019 unions that brought the lawsuit acknowledged that this was not a death knell for vouchers in Louisiana. \u201cI think they can do it right,\u201d said Brian F. Blackwell, who represents the Louisiana Association of Educators. \u201cThe question is whether or not there\u2019s a willingness to do it right.\u201d It is certainly not as potentially problematic for the program as a decision that vouchers violate a standing court order on desegregation, as a federal judge ruled last week in regard to such an order in one Louisiana parish. But if it survives appeal, the state court\u2019s decision would make things far messier for a governor who is widely believed to have aspirations for national office, and who made education reform a centerpiece of his second-term agenda. The law at the center of the debate, which was passed last March, includes more than just a voucher system: it also significantly broadens and streamlines the process of establishing charter schools and creates a program in which students can take courses from online providers with state money. That \u201ccourse choice\u201d program, which begins next year, would also be subject to the judge\u2019s decision about funding, though the state board of education is going forward with plans this week to finalize a list of approved course providers. The voucher program, on the other hand, is already under way: about 5,000 of Louisiana\u2019s 556,000 students are participating. John White, the state superintendent of education, said that the program was working very well, especially considering that it was put in place on such a large scale in a relatively brief period of time and against what he called \u201centrenched interests.\u201d He also insisted that the program would continue whether or not the appeal succeeded. \u201cI want to emphasize how unfortunate I think this decision is,\u201d he said, but added, \u201cBarring any outcome in the courts, we\u2019re going to make sure our parents are served.\u201d Under the law passed last March, the money for vouchers would take an increasing share of the \u201cminimum foundation program formula,\u201d which determines the state and local financial support for school systems. The state had argued that this formula was intended to finance \u201ca public educational system,\u201d of which parish and city schools are simply a part. But if the State Supreme Court were to agree with the district judge and find that arrangement unconstitutional, money for vouchers would have to be appropriated as a separate line item\u00a0 each year, with all of the political complications, year-to-year uncertainty and budget squabbling that would entail. What is certain is that there will be more arguments on the issue to come, in both the courts and the Legislature. \u201cThis is simply one battle in the war that will take place in Louisiana over vouchers,\u201d said Mr. Griffith, the school finance expert."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/04\/business\/global\/greece-announces-terms-of-13-billion-bond-buyback-to-slash-debt.html","body":"LONDON \u2014 In a bold bid to reduce its debt burden, Greece offered on Monday to spend as much as 10 billion euros to buy back 30 billion euros of its bonds from investors and banks.While the buyback had been expected, the prices offered by the government were above what the market had forecast, with a minimum price of 30 euro cents and a maximum of 40 cents, for a discount of 60 percent to 70 percent. Analysts said they expected that the average price would ultimately be 32 to 34 euro cents, a premium of about 4 cents above where the bonds traded at the end of last week. Pierre Moscovici, the French finance minister, played down concerns that the Greek debt buyback might not go as planned. \u201cI have no particular anxiety about this,\u201d Mr. Moscovici said Monday at the European Parliament ahead of the meeting in Brussels of euro zone finance ministers to discuss Greece. \u201cIt just has to be very quick.\u201d A successful buyback is critical for Greece. The International Monetary Fund has said that it will lend more money to Greece only if it is reasonably able to show that it is on target to achieve a ratio of debt to annual gross domestic product of less than 110 percent by 2022. Greece will have at its disposal 10 billion euros, or $13 billion, in borrowed money from Europe. Investors who agree to trade in their Greek bonds will receive six-month treasury bills issued by Europe\u2019s rescue vehicle, the European Financial Stability Facility. The offer will close Friday. If successful, the exchange will retire about half of Greece\u2019s 62 billion euros in debt owed to the private sector. The country still owes about 200 billion euros to European governments and the I.M.F. Analysts said that Greek, Cypriot and other government-controlled European banks, which have as much as 20 billion euros worth of bonds, were expected to agree to the deal at a price in the low 30s. That would mean that to complete the transaction, hedge-fund holdings of 8 billion to 10 billion euros in bonds would have to be tendered at a price below 35 cents. Any higher price would mean that Greece would have to ask its European creditors for extra money \u2014 an unlikely outcome at this stage. Even though Greece is so close to bankruptcy, its bonds have become one of the hot investments in Europe. Large hedge funds, like Third Point and Brevan Howard, have accumulated significant stakes, starting this summer when the bonds were trading in the low teens. Shorter-term traders have been snapping up bonds at around 29 cents to make a quick profit by participating in the buyback. In a research note published Monday, analysts at Nomura in London said it was \u201creasonable and likely\u201d that enough hedge funds \u2014 especially those that might be more risk-averse and or have a shorter perspective \u2014 would agree to the deal at a price below 35 cents. But there are also foreign investors looking to the longer term who may decide to hold onto most of their holdings in the hope that the bonds rally even more after a successful buyback. \u201cI think the bonds could go to as high as 40 cents in a nonexit scenario,\u201d said Gabriel Sterne, an analyst at Exotix in London, referring to the consensus view that Greece will not leave the euro zone anytime soon. Bondholders were encouraged by comments from Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, reported in the German news media over the weekend, that raised the possibility that European governments might offer Greece debt relief in the future. A number of bondholders expect Greek bond yields to trade more in line with those of Portugal in the coming years, but without the prospect of a future buyback to push up the prices of Greek government bonds, the risk to such an approach is substantial. Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the group of finance ministers whose countries use the euro, told a news conference late Monday in Brussels that ministers would meet again on the morning of Dec. 13 to make a final decision on aid disbursement to Greece. Mr. Juncker said he was confident that Greece would receive its money on that date, but he declined to comment on the prospects for success of the buyback program because it was a sensitive matter for the financial markets. Mr. Juncker has been the president of the group of ministers since 2005, and the post gives him significant power over what is discussed at the group\u2019s meetings. Mr. Juncker reiterated at the news conference that he would step down at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year. But he declined to signal his preference for any particular successor. \u201cI don\u2019t have to endorse anyone,\u201d Mr. Juncker said. \u201cI was asking my colleagues to provide for my succession,\u201d he said, referring to discussions held with ministers earlier in the evening. Separately, Spain, which is also seeking to overcome crippling debt problems, began the process Monday of formally requesting 39.5 billion euros in emergency aid to recapitalize its banks. It also announced that a tax amnesty had yielded only 1.2 billion euros, less than half what the government had expected. The request for emergency aid was being sent to authorities managing the euro zone bailout funds, according to Spanish officials, who added that no further approval would be needed from ministers meeting in Brussels. The request follows the European Commission\u2019s approval last week of a plan to make the granting of the aid conditional on thousands of layoffs and office closings at four Spanish banks: Bankia, Catalunya Banc, NCG Banco and Banco de Valencia. James Kanter contributed reporting from Brussels."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/04\/nyregion\/simcha-felders-party-leaning-is-no-surprise-to-constituents.html","body":"Simcha Felder was elected to the State Senate just a few weeks ago as a Democrat, defeating a Republican incumbent for a newly drawn district in an Orthodox Jewish pocket of Brooklyn. But he promptly announced that when he got to Albany he would caucus with and mostly vote with the Republicans.Such a switch might startle or anger voters in many districts, but in the Hasidic and other Orthodox communities of Borough Park, Midwood and Kensington, his switch is being greeted with a collective shrug; party affiliation is less important there than more practical concerns, like obtaining government money for tuition and busing at yeshivas, a goal Senate Republicans have seemed more willing to accommodate. Mr. Felder, whose move could help Republicans retain control of a closely divided Senate, made clear all along to voters that he would decide which party to caucus with based on his community\u2019s needs. He defeated David Storobin, a Republican who had been elected to the Senate in a hard-fought special election just eight months earlier; the district lines were then redrawn to reflect population shifts identified in the 2010 census, and Mr. Felder won the seat in a landslide. \u201cIt was understood that he was a Democrat by name, but not in his views so much,\u201d said Rabbi Zvi Mermelstein, 29, of Borough Park. But his decision has upset leaders of the Democratic Party. The Brooklyn Democratic chairman, Frank Seddio, called it \u201cboth a disgrace and a complete betrayal of his constituents.\u201d And even in the district, there are some misgivings. \u201cI could live with him caucusing with the Republicans, but he did it when he didn\u2019t even know who the Democratic leader was going to be,\u201d\u2019 said Moshe Friedman, a host of \u201cLet\u2019s Talk Tachlis,\u201d a radio show. The district, with its large population of Orthodox Jews, was created in part after a request from Agudath Israel of America, an umbrella group representing both Hasidic and other ultra-Orthodox organizations, to consolidate the Orthodox vote in one district, according to Rabbi Shmuel Lefkowitz, the chief lobbyist in Albany for Agudath Israel, who noted that other ethnic groups had made similar requests in other parts of the city. The concentration of Orthodox Jewish voters had a potential advantage for Republicans in heavily Democratic New York City: though most ultra-Orthodox Jews are Democrats, many have often voted for Republicans. In the November election Mitt Romney easily captured the district\u2019s support in the presidential campaign, and the community\u2019s leaders have forged an increasingly close relationship with Republican leaders in Albany. Their top legislative priority has been winning state assistance for religious education, because many Orthodox families have six or more children and educate them in yeshivas. \u201cThere\u2019s no question that the Senate Republicans are more sensitive to the needs of nonpublic schools,\u201d Rabbi Lefkowitz said. In recent years, Agudath Israel and other Orthodox groups have successfully pressed for legislation allowing the use of public money for school buses that run after 4:30 p.m. \u2014 as most yeshiva buses do \u2014 and for state tuition grants for rabbinical and other professional theology students. The change in college tuition grants alone will mean about $18 million a year in benefits. The State Legislature also passed a controversial measure that would have required public school officials to consider the \u201chome life and family background\u201d of special education students when placing them in schools. Critics said the measure would have required using public dollars to send more students to religious schools, and it was vetoed by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. Mr. Felder, an ordained rabbi though not a practicing one, would not agree to an interview. His senior adviser, Kalman Yeger, said he was \u201ctrying to stay out of the limelight\u201d because he still worked as a deputy city comptroller. Mr. Felder, 53, is a certified public accountant with a bachelor\u2019s degree from Touro College and a master\u2019s degree from Baruch College\u2019s business school. He has four children and is a grandfather. He worked as an auditor for the city\u2019s Department of Finance and then for 10 years as chief of staff for the neighborhood\u2019s longest-serving Orthodox politician, Dov Hikind. Mr. Felder was elected to the City Council in 2001, and as a councilman he was known not for grand policy initiatives but for tending to the nit-picking annoyances of daily life. He got a five-minute grace period for alternate side-of the street parking violations and made it illegal to drop advertising circulars on a homeowner\u2019s lawn without permission. As a child, Mr. Felder attended a Hasidic yeshiva \u2014 Yeshiva Karlin Stolin \u2014 but he was ordained through Yeshiva Torah Vodaas, an ultra-Orthodox school congenial to the \u201cblack hat\u201d or \u201cyeshivish\u201d movement: Jews who are as rigorous as the Hasidim but do not venerate particular grand rabbis. He has acknowledged regularly consulting rabbinical authorities for policy guidance, a selling point in Hasidic areas. In 2006, when Mr. Felder was a councilman, he took a break during the vote to elect a Council speaker, rather than cast a vote for Christine C. Quinn, who is openly gay. The ultra-Orthodox condemn homosexuality as contrary to biblical law. His father, Tzvi Mordechai Felder, was a beloved rabbi who led a room-size synagogue in his home in Borough Park. The other day, four elderly men studying Talmud there said Mr. Felder still set up chairs for worship and laid out a Sabbath afternoon meal. They were not critical of his decision to caucus with the Republicans. \u201cThe Democrats go out for gays, which is completely against Orthodox Judaism, so I don\u2019t blame him for going along with the Republican Party,\u201d said Rabbi Jacob Neuberger, 85. \u201cHe\u2019s a man of principle.\u201d"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/04\/nyregion\/at-brooklyn-loft-angry-neighbors-and-dozens-of-violations.html","body":"The old brick factory building on Banker Street and Meserole Avenue in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, is just blocks from Williamsburg\u2019s bustling Bedford Avenue, McCarren Park and the East River. There is exposed brick. There are stainless steel appliances. There is a jaw-dropping panoramic view of the Manhattan skyline from the expansive roof terrace, the perfect party space.All of which made Oliver Fiegel, 35, and his three roommates eager to move in. Mr. Fiegel was from Germany, another roommate from France, and they wanted to experience Brooklyn loft life. It was not until they arrived and encountered the single radiator, the sweltering loft bedroom and the kitchen light switch that inexplicably controls the bedroom lights that they decided to do a Google search on the building, 239 Banker Street. The building, a former sweater factory, had a well-documented history \u2014 a local blogger, Heather Letzkus, has devoted nearly 150 posts to it since 2009. \u201cIf you walk in, you\u2019re like, this is a nice space,\u201d Mr. Fiegel said. But the problems quickly dispelled that notion for him. \u201cIf you look at the details, you realize it pretty fast \u2014 it\u2019s pretty bad,\u201d he said, grimly. To the roommates\u2019 surprise, they learned that the building, with 74 apartments, had been converted into lofts without the city\u2019s permission. It has racked up dozens of violations from the Buildings Department and incurred thousands of dollars in fines. In September 2009, an inspection found conditions so hazardous that the city immediately evicted tenants. People in Williamsburg and Greenpoint have become used to looking the other way when they notice flowers and curtains in the windows of former factory buildings, and law-bending landlords are nothing new. But this building has particularly galled its neighbors, who say it is an extreme example of gentrification run amok \u2014 and the city\u2019s inability to do anything about it. \u201cIt makes my head spin,\u201d Ms. Letzkus, who runs That Greenpoint Blog, said. \u201cI\u2019m not the only person who feels this way.\u201d She certainly is not. \u201cWhy is it that someone can so egregiously and recklessly ignore the law and not be penalized appropriately?\u201d said Heather Roslund, the chairwoman of Community Board 1\u2019s land use committee. \u201cIt\u2019s frustrating, to say the least,\u201d said Malcolm Sanborn-Hum, a spokesman for Councilwoman Diana Reyna. The building sits in the Greenpoint-Williamsburg Industrial Business Zone, created by the Bloomberg administration in 2005 to preserve manufacturing jobs. The designation seeks to prevent the conversion of industrial buildings for nonindustrial purposes. Residences were not approved, though hotels, nightclubs and a few other uses were. The fashionable Wythe Hotel is one such exception. Previous owners of 239 Banker applied to create a hotel but built lofts instead \u2014 not only exploiting a loophole in the zoning rules, in local planners\u2019 view, but also affronting the spirit of the rezoning. \u201cIt\u2019s not crime and disinvestment that\u2019s the enemy of the working-class jobs here anymore,\u201d said Leah Archibald, the director of the East Williamsburg Valley Industrial Development Corporation, a nonprofit entity that administers the Industrial Business Zone. \u201cIt\u2019s gentrification that\u2019s become the enemy.\u201d In 2009, as tenants moved in, the building was cited for work without a permit, lacking a certificate of occupancy and other violations. A \u201cstop work\u201d order did not stop the work. That September, an inspector determined that workers had plastered over fire sprinkler heads and ordered the building vacated. Residents came home from work to find the building padlocked; they lost their security deposits. Yet after only a few months, construction restarted. This summer, the building began filling once again, advertised on Craigslist under varying names, like \u201cthe Sweater Factory Lofts\u201d or \u201cthe Rustic House,\u201d for $2,800 to $3,800 a month. And the violations piled up. The building has been cited for, among other infractions, working without a permit, lacking the necessary certificate of occupancy and violating a stop work order. The building manager, who would give his name only as Reuven, said most violations were the responsibility of the previous owners. He said he was speaking on behalf of a company called North Side Lofts LLC, which took over in October. (The Web site of the city\u2019s Finance Department lists different owners, but those people said they no longer owned the building.) 1 2 Next Page \u00bb"}][{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/04\/science\/sign-language-researchers-broaden-science-lexicon.html","body":"Imagine trying to learn biology without ever using the word \u201corganism.\u201d Or studying to become a botanist when the only way of referring to photosynthesis is to spell the word out, letter by painstaking letter.For deaf students, this game of scientific Password has long been the daily classroom and laboratory experience. Words like \u201corganism\u201d and \u201cphotosynthesis\u201d \u2014 to say nothing of more obscure and harder-to-spell terms \u2014 have no single widely accepted equivalent in sign language. This means that deaf students and their teachers and interpreters must improvise, making it that much harder for the students to excel in science and pursue careers in it. \u201cOften times, it would involve a lot of finger-spelling and a lot of improvisation,\u201d said Matthew Schwerin, a physicist with the Food and Drug Administration who is deaf, of his years in school. \u201cFor the majority of scientific terms,\u201d Mr. Schwerin and his interpreter for the day would \u201ctry to find a correct sign for the term, and if nothing was pre-existing, we would come up with a sign that was agreeable with both parties.\u201d Now thanks to the Internet \u2014 particularly the boom in online video \u2014 resources for deaf students seeking science-related signs are easier to find and share. Crowdsourcing projects in both American Sign Language and British Sign Language are under way at several universities, enabling people who are deaf to coalesce around signs for commonly used terms. This year, one of those resources, the Scottish Sensory Centre\u2019s British Sign Language Glossary Project, added 116 new signs for physics and engineering terms, including signs for \u201clight-year,\u201d\u00a0 (hold one hand up and spread the fingers downward for \u201clight,\u201d then bring both hands together in front of your chest and slowly move them apart for \u201cyear\u201d), \u201cmass\u201d and \u201cX-ray\u201d (form an X with your index fingers, then, with the index finger on the right hand, point outward).\u00a0 The signs were developed by a team of researchers at the center, a division of the University of Edinburgh in Scotland that develops learning tools for students with visual and auditory impairments. The researchers spent more than a year soliciting ideas from deaf science workers, circulating lists of potential signs and ultimately gathering for \u201can intense weekend\u201d of final voting, said Audrey Cameron, science adviser for the project. (Dr. Cameron is also deaf, and like all non-hearing people interviewed for this article, answered questions via e-mail.) Whether the Scottish Sensory Centre\u2019s signs will take hold among its audience remains to be seen. \u201cSome will be adopted, and some will probably never be accepted,\u201d Dr. Cameron said. \u201cWe\u2019ll have to wait and see what happens.\u201d Ideally, the standardization of signs will make it easier for deaf students to keep pace with their hearing classmates during lectures. \u201cI can only choose to look at one thing at a time,\u201d said Mr. Schwerin of the F.D.A., recalling his science education, \u201cand it often meant choosing between the interpreter, the blackboard\/screen\/material, or taking notes. It was like, pick one, and lose out on the others.\u201d The problem doesn\u2019t end at graduation. In fact, it only intensifies as new discoveries add unfamiliar terms to the scientific lexicon. \u201cI\u2019ve had numerous meetings where I couldn\u2019t participate properly because the interpreters were not able to understand the jargon and they did not know any scientific signs,\u201d Dr. Cameron said. One general complaint about efforts to standardize signs for technical terms is the idea that, much like spoken language, sign language should be allowed to develop organically rather than be dictated from above. \u201cSigns that are developed naturally \u2014 i.e., that are tested and refined in everyday conversation \u2014 are more likely to be accepted quickly by the community,\u201d said Derek Braun, director of the molecular genetics laboratory at Gallaudet University in Washington, D.C., which he said was the first biological laboratory designed and administered by deaf scientists. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:Correction: December 4, 2012An earlier version of a correction with this article misstated the name of an institute that works on the ASL-STEM Forum. It is the\u00a0National Technical Institute for the Deaf at Rochester Institute of Technology not the National Institute for the Deaf.\u00a0This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:Correction: December 6, 2012An article on Tuesday about efforts to develop standardized sign language for common scientific terms misidentified the university that started the ASL-STEM Forum, a Web site dedicated to such improvements. It was developed by researchers at the University of Washington, not at Gallaudet University. (Researchers at Gallaudet and the National Technical Institute for the Deaf work with the University of Washington to provide content and help the forum grow.)"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/03\/business\/global\/03iht-ministers03.html","body":"BRUSSELS \u2014 They meet yet again. And once more, the agenda will be dominated by a looming deadline in the unfinished business of Greece.Euro zone finance ministers will gather here on Monday for their fourth meeting in four weeks. Last week they hashed out a plan by which Greece can try to unlock a long overdue bailout loan installment. The country needs the money desperately to avoid bankruptcy, to pay wages and pensions and to carry out economic changes demanded by its international creditors. On Monday, the finance ministers are expected to vet Greece\u2019s planned response to a central provision of that plan: a buyback of some of the Greek bonds held by investors, at a discount, as a way to reduce its staggering debt load. Greece has until Dec. 13 to make that happen if it hopes to receive its next tranche of bailout money. Even as the Greek economy continues to falter, the latest meeting of finance ministers comes against a backdrop of grim new data for the euro region as a whole. Despite an optimistic forecast on Friday from the European Central Bank president that the euro zone would emerge from recession sometime in the second half of next year, the nearer-term data indicates that things may get worse before they can get better. Figures released Friday showed euro zone unemployment rising to a new high in October, with nearly 19 million people \u2014 11.7 percent of the 17-nation currency bloc\u2019s work force \u2014 without jobs. Greece\u2019s international lenders froze aid in June because they perceived the government in Athens to be dragging its heels on fulfilling the terms of its bailout program. Since then, the country has accelerated the economic revamping and budget cuts that creditors have demanded. But the economic outlook for Greece has worsened significantly in the interim \u2014 some critics blame the austerity program, in part \u2014 prompting the International Monetary Fund to pressure lenders, including Germany, to relieve some of its burden. A centerpiece of those efforts, agreed upon last week, is the debt buyback. The plan is for authorities in Athens to borrow European funds to buy Greek bonds that are already trading at a deep discount from their face value. The buyback plan may have allayed fears of an imminent Greek default, but how well it will work remains to be seen. Some in the financial sector have complained about the prospect of being forced to sell bonds at fire-sale prices. The Market Monitoring Group of the Institute of International Finance, a global association of banks and other financial institutions, said last week that it was \u201ccritical that any buyback be conducted on a purely voluntary basis,\u201d even as Yannis Stournaras, the Greek finance minister, warned Greek banks holding many of the bonds that participation was a \u201cpatriotic duty.\u201d But unless Greece reduces its debt, the I.M.F. could still refuse to approve aid. That would probably mean another flurry of emergency meetings to draw up yet another plan. In a sign that at least some investors are eager to sell back their Greek bonds, if the price is right, some big hedge funds have been accumulating the bonds on the open market. Those funds, including Third Point and Brevan Howard, are betting that to make the buyback succeed, the Greek government will have to meet their price demands. On the open market, the bonds in question are trading at around 30 cents on the euro \u2014 in other words, about 30 percent of their face value. The most aggressive hedge funds are insisting that they will not sell for any price below 35 cents on the euro. That raises a risk that investors will push up the price to a point at which it does not make economic sense for Greece to complete the buyback. \u201cThere is a limited amount of money to do this,\u201d Mr. Stournaras said in an interview on Saturday. \u201cBut in the end I do think it will be successful.\u201d To seal the debt overhaul deal last week, after three late-night, marathon meetings in three weeks, Christine Lagarde, managing director of the I.M.F., had to battle to persuade reluctant finance ministers like Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble of Germany. She argued that Greece was sinking so deeply that, without immediate relief, it might never repay its loans. Mr. Sch\u00e4uble declined to go along with a relief plan until a way was found to avoid the politically unpalatable step of forgiving Greece\u2019s loans. Besides the debt buyback, the revamped plan included extending the payback dates for some of the debt held by other euro zone governments. Central banks in countries that use the euro also agreed to return to Greece any profits made on Greek bonds purchased by the European Central Bank. On Friday, the German Parliament approved the new relief plan by a wide margin, a sign of continuing fears about the fate of the euro zone if Greece defaults. But the approval carried a political cost for the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, as nearly two dozen legislators in her own Christian Democrat party voted against the measure. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb Landon Thomas Jr. contributed reporting from London, and Niki Kitsantonis from Athens."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/03\/business\/global\/03iht-ministers03.html","body":"BRUSSELS \u2014 They meet yet again. And once more, the agenda will be dominated by a looming deadline in the unfinished business of Greece.Euro zone finance ministers will gather here on Monday for their fourth meeting in four weeks. Last week they hashed out a plan by which Greece can try to unlock a long overdue bailout loan installment. The country needs the money desperately to avoid bankruptcy, to pay wages and pensions and to carry out economic changes demanded by its international creditors. On Monday, the finance ministers are expected to vet Greece\u2019s planned response to a central provision of that plan: a buyback of some of the Greek bonds held by investors, at a discount, as a way to reduce its staggering debt load. Greece has until Dec. 13 to make that happen if it hopes to receive its next tranche of bailout money. Even as the Greek economy continues to falter, the latest meeting of finance ministers comes against a backdrop of grim new data for the euro region as a whole. Despite an optimistic forecast on Friday from the European Central Bank president that the euro zone would emerge from recession sometime in the second half of next year, the nearer-term data indicates that things may get worse before they can get better. Figures released Friday showed euro zone unemployment rising to a new high in October, with nearly 19 million people \u2014 11.7 percent of the 17-nation currency bloc\u2019s work force \u2014 without jobs. Greece\u2019s international lenders froze aid in June because they perceived the government in Athens to be dragging its heels on fulfilling the terms of its bailout program. Since then, the country has accelerated the economic revamping and budget cuts that creditors have demanded. But the economic outlook for Greece has worsened significantly in the interim \u2014 some critics blame the austerity program, in part \u2014 prompting the International Monetary Fund to pressure lenders, including Germany, to relieve some of its burden. A centerpiece of those efforts, agreed upon last week, is the debt buyback. The plan is for authorities in Athens to borrow European funds to buy Greek bonds that are already trading at a deep discount from their face value. The buyback plan may have allayed fears of an imminent Greek default, but how well it will work remains to be seen. Some in the financial sector have complained about the prospect of being forced to sell bonds at fire-sale prices. The Market Monitoring Group of the Institute of International Finance, a global association of banks and other financial institutions, said last week that it was \u201ccritical that any buyback be conducted on a purely voluntary basis,\u201d even as Yannis Stournaras, the Greek finance minister, warned Greek banks holding many of the bonds that participation was a \u201cpatriotic duty.\u201d But unless Greece reduces its debt, the I.M.F. could still refuse to approve aid. That would probably mean another flurry of emergency meetings to draw up yet another plan. In a sign that at least some investors are eager to sell back their Greek bonds, if the price is right, some big hedge funds have been accumulating the bonds on the open market. Those funds, including Third Point and Brevan Howard, are betting that to make the buyback succeed, the Greek government will have to meet their price demands. On the open market, the bonds in question are trading at around 30 cents on the euro \u2014 in other words, about 30 percent of their face value. The most aggressive hedge funds are insisting that they will not sell for any price below 35 cents on the euro. That raises a risk that investors will push up the price to a point at which it does not make economic sense for Greece to complete the buyback. \u201cThere is a limited amount of money to do this,\u201d Mr. Stournaras said in an interview on Saturday. \u201cBut in the end I do think it will be successful.\u201d To seal the debt overhaul deal last week, after three late-night, marathon meetings in three weeks, Christine Lagarde, managing director of the I.M.F., had to battle to persuade reluctant finance ministers like Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble of Germany. She argued that Greece was sinking so deeply that, without immediate relief, it might never repay its loans. Mr. Sch\u00e4uble declined to go along with a relief plan until a way was found to avoid the politically unpalatable step of forgiving Greece\u2019s loans. Besides the debt buyback, the revamped plan included extending the payback dates for some of the debt held by other euro zone governments. Central banks in countries that use the euro also agreed to return to Greece any profits made on Greek bonds purchased by the European Central Bank. On Friday, the German Parliament approved the new relief plan by a wide margin, a sign of continuing fears about the fate of the euro zone if Greece defaults. But the approval carried a political cost for the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, as nearly two dozen legislators in her own Christian Democrat party voted against the measure. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb Landon Thomas Jr. contributed reporting from London, and Niki Kitsantonis from Athens."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/03\/business\/treasury-auctions-set-for-this-week.html","body":"The Treasury\u2019s schedule of financing this week includes Monday\u2019s regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.08 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.13 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.11 percent. The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week: TUESDAY Beloit, Wis., School District, $57.8 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. Fremont, Calif., Unified School District, $82.5 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. Multnomah County, Ore., $128 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. Texas, $100 million of general obligation highway improvement bonds. Competitive. Texas Transportation Commission, 100 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK Alabama Federal and Highway Finance Authority, $336.9 million of federal highway grant anticipation bonds. Goldman Sachs. Atlantic City, $95 million of tax appeal refinancing bonds. Citigroup Global Markets. Austin, Tex., Electric Utility Commission, $385 million of taxable\/tax exempt bonds. Citigroup Global Markets. Calif., Bay Area Toll Authority, $310 million of Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association index rate remarketing bonds. Bank of America. Cincinnati, $51.9 million of general obligation bonds. PNC Capital Markets. Contra Costa, Calif. Transportation Authority, $166 million of sales tax revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets. Contra Costa, Calif., Transportation Authority, $201.4 million of sales tax limited refinancing revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets. Denver School District No. 1 $67.2 million of general obligation bonds. Stifel, Nicolaus. Denver School District No. 1, $466 million of general obligation bonds. RBC Capital Markets. Hanover County, Va., Economic Development Authority, $69.7 million of residential care facility revenue bonds. BB&T capital Markets. Los Angeles Department of Airports, $269 million of international airport senior revenue tax exempt bonds. Citigroup Global Markets. Massachusetts, $380.5 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. Morgan Stanley. Miami, $50 million of limited offering bonds. PNC Capital Markets Missouri Development Finance Board, $55.7 million of independence revenue bonds. Piper Jaffray. New Jersey Transportation Trust Fund Authority, $326.2 million of transportation system bonds. Barclays Capital. New Jersey Transportation Trust Fund Authority, $920.7 million of transportation program bonds, Barclays Capital. New Mexico Finance Authority, $315.8 million of transportation refinancing revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets. New York City Municipal Water Finance Authority, $435 million of water and sewer system second general resolution revenue bonds. Raymond James. New York State Housing Finance Agency, $157.5 million of affordable housing revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities. Oklahoma County Finance Authority, $66 million of revenue and refinancing bonds. Ziegler. Oregon Health and Science University, $124.9 million of revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities. Spring Lake, Calif., Episcopal Senior Communities, Association of Bay Area Governments Finance Authority, $138.7 million of nonprofit corporation revenue bonds. Ziegler. Texas Transportation Commission, $839.3 million of Texas highway improvement general obligation bonds. Wells Fargo Securities. Wyandotte County, Kan., Board of Public Utilities, $78.8 million of utility system improvement revenue bonds. BMO Capital Markets."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/03\/business\/economy\/economic-reports-for-the-week-of-dec-3.html","body":"ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include ISM manufacturing index for November and construction spending for October (Monday), ADP employment for November; revised third-quarter productivity, ISM service index for November and factory orders for October (Wednesday), weekly jobless claims (Thursday) and unemployment for November, Thomson Reuters\/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for December and consumer credit for October (Friday). CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report include Toll Brothers and Pandora Media (Tuesday) and Smithfield Foods (Thursday). IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, automakers will report their North American sales for November; and the Financial Stability Oversight Council will meet in a closed session in Washington. On Tuesday, John Stumpf, the chief executive of Wells Fargo; Brian Moynihan, the chief executive of Bank of America; and Kenneth Chenault, the chief executive of American Express, will speak at the Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference at the Conrad Hotel in New York; and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will release its quarterly banking profile on industry earnings. On Wednesday, a House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the economic and market implications of provisions in the Dodd-Frank overhaul law on derivatives; and the Department of Energy will release its annual forecast for energy supply, demand and prices to 2040. On Thursday, the Census Bureau will release the third of three broad surveys about 2007-11 data on income, education, occupation and other features; a federal judge will hear Apple\u2019s arguments for permanently barring United States sales of eight Samsung smartphone models; the Joint Economic Committee will conduct a hearing about the effect of the so-called fiscal cliff on the economy and the middle class; the House Transportation Committee will conduct a hearing on the high-speed and intercity passenger rail program; the Senate Banking Committee will conduct a hearing about oversight of the Federal Housing Administration; a Senate Commerce subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the effect of Hurricane Sandy on the nation\u2019s transportation systems; and Edward DeMarco, acting director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, will speak at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association\u2019s securitization outlook conference in New York. On Friday, American Airlines\u2019 pilots will conclude voting on their contract. OVERSEAS On Monday, euro zone finance ministers will meet in Brussels to discuss the fiscal troubles of Greece, Spain and Cyprus; and the United Nations World Conference on International Telecommunications will start in Dubai and run through Dec. 14. Representatives from 193 United Nations member states will develop new international rules and guidelines. On Tuesday, European Union finance ministers will meet in Brussels to discuss banking oversight. On Wednesday, the United States Embassy in Beijing will bring together Chinese investors to discuss investment opportunities with officials from American states; and George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer in Britain, will present updates of economic and fiscal forecasts. On Thursday, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England will issue decisions about interest rates."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/03\/business\/economy\/economic-reports-for-the-week-of-dec-3.html","body":"ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include ISM manufacturing index for November and construction spending for October (Monday), ADP employment for November; revised third-quarter productivity, ISM service index for November and factory orders for October (Wednesday), weekly jobless claims (Thursday) and unemployment for November, Thomson Reuters\/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for December and consumer credit for October (Friday). CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report include Toll Brothers and Pandora Media (Tuesday) and Smithfield Foods (Thursday). IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, automakers will report their North American sales for November; and the Financial Stability Oversight Council will meet in a closed session in Washington. On Tuesday, John Stumpf, the chief executive of Wells Fargo; Brian Moynihan, the chief executive of Bank of America; and Kenneth Chenault, the chief executive of American Express, will speak at the Goldman Sachs Financial Services Conference at the Conrad Hotel in New York; and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will release its quarterly banking profile on industry earnings. On Wednesday, a House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the economic and market implications of provisions in the Dodd-Frank overhaul law on derivatives; and the Department of Energy will release its annual forecast for energy supply, demand and prices to 2040. On Thursday, the Census Bureau will release the third of three broad surveys about 2007-11 data on income, education, occupation and other features; a federal judge will hear Apple\u2019s arguments for permanently barring United States sales of eight Samsung smartphone models; the Joint Economic Committee will conduct a hearing about the effect of the so-called fiscal cliff on the economy and the middle class; the House Transportation Committee will conduct a hearing on the high-speed and intercity passenger rail program; the Senate Banking Committee will conduct a hearing about oversight of the Federal Housing Administration; a Senate Commerce subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the effect of Hurricane Sandy on the nation\u2019s transportation systems; and Edward DeMarco, acting director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, will speak at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association\u2019s securitization outlook conference in New York. On Friday, American Airlines\u2019 pilots will conclude voting on their contract. OVERSEAS On Monday, euro zone finance ministers will meet in Brussels to discuss the fiscal troubles of Greece, Spain and Cyprus; and the United Nations World Conference on International Telecommunications will start in Dubai and run through Dec. 14. Representatives from 193 United Nations member states will develop new international rules and guidelines. On Tuesday, European Union finance ministers will meet in Brussels to discuss banking oversight. On Wednesday, the United States Embassy in Beijing will bring together Chinese investors to discuss investment opportunities with officials from American states; and George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer in Britain, will present updates of economic and fiscal forecasts. On Thursday, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England will issue decisions about interest rates."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/03\/business\/treasury-auctions-set-for-this-week.html","body":"The Treasury\u2019s schedule of financing this week includes Monday\u2019s regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.08 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.13 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.11 percent. The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week: TUESDAY Beloit, Wis., School District, $57.8 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. Fremont, Calif., Unified School District, $82.5 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. Multnomah County, Ore., $128 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. Texas, $100 million of general obligation highway improvement bonds. Competitive. Texas Transportation Commission, 100 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK Alabama Federal and Highway Finance Authority, $336.9 million of federal highway grant anticipation bonds. Goldman Sachs. Atlantic City, $95 million of tax appeal refinancing bonds. Citigroup Global Markets. Austin, Tex., Electric Utility Commission, $385 million of taxable\/tax exempt bonds. Citigroup Global Markets. Calif., Bay Area Toll Authority, $310 million of Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association index rate remarketing bonds. Bank of America. Cincinnati, $51.9 million of general obligation bonds. PNC Capital Markets. Contra Costa, Calif. Transportation Authority, $166 million of sales tax revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets. Contra Costa, Calif., Transportation Authority, $201.4 million of sales tax limited refinancing revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets. Denver School District No. 1 $67.2 million of general obligation bonds. Stifel, Nicolaus. Denver School District No. 1, $466 million of general obligation bonds. RBC Capital Markets. Hanover County, Va., Economic Development Authority, $69.7 million of residential care facility revenue bonds. BB&T capital Markets. Los Angeles Department of Airports, $269 million of international airport senior revenue tax exempt bonds. Citigroup Global Markets. Massachusetts, $380.5 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. Morgan Stanley. Miami, $50 million of limited offering bonds. PNC Capital Markets Missouri Development Finance Board, $55.7 million of independence revenue bonds. Piper Jaffray. New Jersey Transportation Trust Fund Authority, $326.2 million of transportation system bonds. Barclays Capital. New Jersey Transportation Trust Fund Authority, $920.7 million of transportation program bonds, Barclays Capital. New Mexico Finance Authority, $315.8 million of transportation refinancing revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets. New York City Municipal Water Finance Authority, $435 million of water and sewer system second general resolution revenue bonds. Raymond James. New York State Housing Finance Agency, $157.5 million of affordable housing revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities. Oklahoma County Finance Authority, $66 million of revenue and refinancing bonds. Ziegler. Oregon Health and Science University, $124.9 million of revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities. Spring Lake, Calif., Episcopal Senior Communities, Association of Bay Area Governments Finance Authority, $138.7 million of nonprofit corporation revenue bonds. Ziegler. Texas Transportation Commission, $839.3 million of Texas highway improvement general obligation bonds. Wells Fargo Securities. Wyandotte County, Kan., Board of Public Utilities, $78.8 million of utility system improvement revenue bonds. BMO Capital Markets."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/03\/us\/winners-and-losers-in-texas.html","body":"DALLAS \u2014 The Preston Hollow neighborhood has been home to many of Texas\u2019 rich and powerful \u2014 George and Laura Bush, Mark Cuban, T. Boone Pickens, Ross Perot. So it is hardly surprising that a recent political fund-raiser was held there on the back terrace of a 20,000-square-foot home overlooking lush gardens with life-size bronze statues of the host\u2019s daughters. The guest of honor was Gov. Rick Perry, but the man behind the event was not one of the enclave\u2019s boldface names. He was a tax consultant named G. Brint Ryan. Mr. Ryan\u2019s specialty is helping clients like ExxonMobil and Neiman Marcus secure state and local tax breaks and other business incentives. It is a good line of work in Texas. Under Mr. Perry, Texas gives out more of the incentives than any other state, around $19 billion a year, an examination by The New York Times has found. Texas justifies its largess by pointing out that it is home to half of all the private sector jobs created over the last decade nationwide. As the invitation to the fund-raiser boasted: \u201cTexas leads the nation in job creation.\u201d Yet the raw numbers mask a more complicated reality behind the flood of incentives, the examination shows, and raise questions about who benefits more, the businesses or the people of Texas. Along with the huge job growth, the state has the third-highest proportion of hourly jobs paying at or below minimum wage. And despite its low level of unemployment, Texas has the 11th-highest poverty rate among states. \u201cWhile economic development is the mantra of most officials, there\u2019s a question of when does economic development end and corporate welfare begin,\u201d said Dale Craymer, the president of the Texas Taxpayers and Research Association, a group supported by business that favors incentives programs. In a state that markets itself as \u201cwide open for business,\u201d the lines are often blurred between decision makers and beneficiaries, according to interviews with dozens of state and local officials and corporate representatives. The government in many instances is relying on businesses and consultants like Mr. Ryan for suggestions on what incentives to grant and which companies should receive them, as well as on other factors that directly affect public spending and budgets, the interviews show. Mr. Ryan does not claim to be neutral on where the money should go. \u201cIt\u2019s widely known that I represent a lot of taxpayers,\u201d he said in an interview. \u201cI have client relationships with people who hopefully, if they invest in Texas, they\u2019ll receive incentives.\u201d Granting corporate incentives has become standard operating procedure for state and local governments across the country. The Times investigation found that the governments collectively give incentives worth at least $80 billion a year. The free flow of tax breaks and subsidies in Texas makes it particularly fertile ground to examine these economic development deals and the fundamental trade-off behind them: the more states give to businesses, the less they have available in the short term to spend on basic services, a calculation made more stark by the recession. To help balance its budget last year, Texas cut public education spending by $5.4 billion \u2014 a significant decrease considering that it already ranked 11th from the bottom among all states in per-pupil financing, according to recent data from the Census Bureau. Yet highly profitable companies like Dow Chemical and Texas Instruments continue to enjoy hefty discounts on their school tax bills through one of the state\u2019s economic development programs. In the Manor school district, which comprises the town and part of Austin, Samsung has been awarded more than $231 million in incentives from state and local officials. But the recent budget cuts have left the district with crowded classes and fewer programs. Mr. Perry, who took office at the end of 2000, has been a longtime proponent of lowering taxes. He said in an interview that companies could put the money to better use than the government and would spend it in ways that would create jobs and help Texans. \u201cFacebook, eBay, Apple \u2014 all of those within the last two years have announced major expansions in Texas,\u201d Mr. Perry said. \u201cThey\u2019re coming because it is given, it is covenant, in these boardrooms across America, that our tax structure, regulatory climate and legal environment are very positive to those businesses.\u201d He acknowledged that the state\u2019s job growth was not erasing persistent poverty, saying that \u201cwe are going to have people that fall through the cracks.\u201d He said creating jobs was the best way to help Texans, who \u201cdon\u2019t want government assistance when they can do it themselves.\u201d But relying on companies does not always turn out well. When Amazon set up a distribution center outside Dallas, it received incentives from the state. Six years later, when the company got into a tax dispute with the state, it shut the warehouse, which employed as many as 2,000 people during its peak season. Nationwide, a whole industry of consultants has grown up around state efforts to lure companies with incentives. Companies like Ernst & Young, Deloitte and Automatic Data Processing, a payroll company, have divisions dedicated to helping companies search for the best deals. Mr. Ryan\u2019s Dallas-based firm, Ryan LLC, operates in 27 states and seven countries and represents numerous Fortune 500 companies. Texas alone is a big source of business for Mr. Ryan, who has won tax refunds of more than $20 million each for ExxonMobil and Raytheon. This year, he sought similar amounts for Verizon, Freescale Semiconductor and several other companies, according to state documents obtained through an open records request. At the same time, Mr. Ryan has become one of the state\u2019s most generous political donors. He co-founded a political action committee last year that supported Mr. Perry\u2019s bid for the Republican presidential nomination and donated $250,000. Even as business leaders press local governments to give out more incentives, they warn against requiring too much in return. In Travis County, which includes Austin, commissioners recently passed new rules for companies that receive tax abatements. One requires paying employees $11 an hour, an amount the county considers to be a living wage. The rules had been contested by the business community. \u201cThe more stipulations you put into an agreement, the more complicated it becomes and the less competitive we become,\u201d Gary Farmer, a local business leader who runs an insurance company, told the county commissioners at a hearing. \u201cWe\u2019re concerned about including a living wage into the policy, as we believe that could have a chilling effect on certain companies.\u201d The Money Starts Flowing When Mr. Perry became governor in 2000, Texas was not a major player in the incentives game. He quickly got his first taste during a bidding war among states when Boeing was hunting for a new location for its headquarters. Texas ultimately lost to Illinois, which awarded Boeing $52.5 million in incentives, but the episode was a turning point. \u201cWe came back in here after we lost that,\u201d Mr. Perry said, \u201cand we analyzed our economic development efforts, and that\u2019s when we started making some changes.\u201d Mr. Perry got the money flowing through two new cash funds created to recruit businesses. One, the Texas Enterprise Fund, awarded more than $410 million over eight years, according to the governor\u2019s office, and the recipients said they would create more than 54,000 jobs. The fund requires companies that do not meet their job targets to return incentive money. The state has also embraced a popular program that establishes enterprise zones where companies can receive refunds on some taxes they pay in exchange for moving there. The exemption has added up to big money for retailers like Walmart. Not coincidentally, the company has opened stores in similar enterprise zones across the country. Walmart owed some of its other tax savings to Mr. Ryan, who counted the retailer among his earliest clients in the 1990s. Once an accounting firm, Ryan LLC transformed itself in recent years into a powerhouse focused on corporate tax breaks. Mr. Ryan is a familiar presence at the state comptroller\u2019s office in Austin, which must sign off on many tax breaks. He is known there for his laser focus and forceful negotiating skills. \u201cIt\u2019s gloves-off, full-frontal assault,\u201d said a former official, who requested anonymity because of state confidentiality rules. Mr. Ryan agrees that he is aggressive, saying that \u201cguys like me are all that stand between the government fleecing taxpayers.\u201d He has at times filed lawsuits over tax rules he does not like, including one against the head of the Internal Revenue Service and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. In one of his most lucrative deals, Mr. Ryan in 2006 helped Texas Instruments win tens of millions of dollars in tax refunds, according to the comptroller\u2019s office. Ryan LLC often gets to keep around 30 percent of its clients\u2019 awards, according to former employees. That same year, Mr. Ryan was a top donor to the campaign of the comptroller at the time, Carole Keeton Strayhorn, personally giving $250,000, according to campaign finance records. Over the course of Ms. Strayhorn\u2019s tenure, Mr. Ryan, his employees and his company\u2019s PAC would donate nearly $3 million, including when the comptroller ran for governor, the records show. He and his employees have made campaign contributions to the current comptroller, Susan Combs, totaling more than $600,000. Ms. Strayhorn declined to comment, and a representative for Ms. Combs said the donations did not affect her decisions. Since 2000, Mr. Ryan and his wife, Amanda, have contributed over $4 million to a variety of state officials and political causes, including the governor. Mr. Perry declined to comment on Mr. Ryan, but at a local event in 2010 he called him \u201cthe type of visionary that every community wants to have,\u201d according to The Abilene Reporter-News. Mr. Ryan said that he gave to candidates in many states and that his donations brought extra scrutiny, not favorable treatment. Others see it differently. \u201cWhen you give money to a state regulator who you appear before, there are potential conflicts of interest,\u201d said Craig McDonald, the executive director of Texans for Public Justice, a liberal watchdog group. \u201cAnd Texas law is way too weak in allowing those conflicts to exist.\u201d Mr. Ryan set his own sights on public office in 2009, running for the Dallas City Council on a platform that pushed cutting public spending. Simultaneously, Mr. Ryan was pursuing state aid for his own company, applying for an enterprise zone designation for his business. Mr. Ryan lost the race but won the incentive. \u201cIn these tough economic times, our city officials must use every tool available to ensure job growth and expand the tax base,\u201d he said of the award in a news release. Mr. Perry has made corporate recruitment a hallmark of his administration. The governor frequently makes trips to cities like Chicago, New York and San Francisco to lure prospective businesses. During a visit to San Diego in June, he proudly told local officials that about a third of the companies moving to Texas were from California, said Ruben Barrales, the chief executive of the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce. \u201cGovernor Perry is here quite a bit,\u201d Mr. Barrales said. \u201cHe meets with companies. He\u2019s letting people know if they\u2019re interested in further growth, Texas will greet them with open arms. He\u2019s not very shy about it.\u201d Asked if he had qualms about taking jobs from other states, Mr. Perry said, \u201cCompetition is what drives this country.\u201d A nonprofit group called TexasOne recommends potential businesses to the governor and then pays for his travel and other expenses during the recruiting trips. The group is financed by large corporations like Shell and AT&T, as well as by consultants like Ryan LLC. The governor\u2019s office allocates the awards, which state records show amount to millions of dollars each year. In the enterprise zone program, 82 of the 222 awards granted from March 2008 to June 2012 went to companies represented by Mr. Ryan\u2019s firm, according to public records provided by the governor\u2019s office. The list included General Motors, Tyson Foods and the German chemical giant BASF. Until recently, the cash incentives were overseen in Mr. Perry\u2019s office by a top aide, Roberto De Hoyos. In September, Mr. De Hoyos took a new job \u2014 at Ryan LLC. Companies Gain, Schools Lose Lines of new students show up each August at the public schools in Manor. The town is mostly rural, with fields of hay and cattle in every direction. Some of the students\u2019 families came to double up with relatives or friends, others were pushed outward by Austin\u2019s gentrification. Downtown Manor consists of a couple of blocks lined with spots like Ramos Cocina and a smoke-filled convenience store. There are few doctors and no real place to buy groceries. About six miles away, a fabrication plant for the South Korean company Samsung looms over one of Manor\u2019s elementary schools, a symbol of corporate interests juxtaposed with a pillar of public spending. The complex, which makes memory chips for smartphones and other products, includes some of the largest buildings in the area: one covers 1.6 million square feet, or about nine football fields. Since Mr. Perry took office, companies have seen a drop in their school property taxes because of a special incentives program, as well as an across-the-board cut in the school tax rate. The recession has made the squeeze all the more difficult for schools. In the Manor district, spending shrank by about $540 per student this year, according to the Equity Center, an advocacy group for Texas schools. The cuts came even as school enrollment has nearly tripled since 2000. The cracks in financing were on display this summer, as families filled a school cafeteria to register for a prekindergarten program with shortened days. For parents like Tommy and Melissa Sifuentes, the cutback means they have to leave work early or hire a baby sitter. \u201cIt\u2019s harder,\u201d said Ms. Sifuentes, who is still grateful that her son will learn socialization skills at school. About 80 percent of Manor\u2019s students are low-income, according to the E3 Alliance, a nonprofit group in Austin that focuses on education. For about a third of the 8,000 students, English is a second language. In 2005, Manor\u2019s school board gave Samsung eight years of tax abatements worth $112 million as part of the company\u2019s incentives package for its fabrication plant. Under the special incentives program, known as Chapter 313, school boards approve tax abatements for companies. The state then reimburses the district for the amounts they give up. In many districts, the awards were granted after little review. Robert Schneider, a member of Austin\u2019s school board, said the district was nonchalant when it gave an abatement to Hewlett-Packard in 2006. \u201cThe board took it as \u2018we don\u2019t lose in this deal,\u2019 because we knew we were going to get reimbursed by the state,\u201d Mr. Schneider said. \u201cI can tell you there wasn\u2019t any analysis done that said, \u2018Ten, 15 years from now, they will be here and we\u2019ll get such and such out of it.\u2019\u00a0\u201d School boards statewide have approved abatements worth at least $1.9 billion through the program, according to the comptroller\u2019s office. Although the districts are not paying for the abatements themselves, budget experts point out that the reimbursements come from the state\u2019s general fund, which like most state treasuries is running low. In Texas, tax revenues for schools took a direct hit when Mr. Perry created a commission in 2005 to evaluate the state\u2019s tax system. The State Supreme Court was questioning districts\u2019 property tax rates and warned of a school shutdown if legislators did not intervene. The tax rates had been criticized for years by businesses and residents, but some districts countered that they could not afford to cut them without additional state financing. Mr. Perry turned to John Sharp, a Democrat and former comptroller, to lead the commission. At the time, Mr. Sharp worked for Ryan LLC. The commission called for districts to cut school property taxes by around one-third. To make up for some of the lost revenue, it recommended adding a business tax, as well as increasing some sales taxes. \u201cI did what I thought was the best for the state of Texas,\u201d said Mr. Sharp, adding that his position at Ryan LLC did not affect his decisions. \u201cWe saved the state of Texas from complete collapse of the school system, and I\u2019m very proud of that.\u201d Mr. Sharp left Ryan last year to become the chancellor of Texas A&M University. In 2006, the Legislature largely adopted the commission\u2019s proposals and required the state to give districts billions of dollars to allow time for the business tax to make up the difference. Some six years later, things have not worked out as planned. The business tax has not yielded anywhere near what Mr. Sharp\u2019s panel projected, and the state has cut its aid to the districts by $5.4 billion. A spokeswoman for Mr. Perry noted that one of the state\u2019s cash incentive funds was also cut back. Leslie Whitworth, who oversees the curriculum in Manor, said that the district was doing its best to make do with less, but that \u201cit wears on people, the constant crisis, the constant increases in students and constant pressure on budgets.\u201d Among other things, the cuts have meant overcrowding across Texas: the number of classrooms over the state\u2019s student limit nearly quadrupled last year. Some companies recognize the trade-off. Daimler, the German maker of the Mercedes-Benz, accepts incentives in the United States but tries to avoid ones that come out of school budgets, said David Trebing, who manages the company\u2019s relationship with local governments. \u201cWe want to make sure they have enough money for their schools,\u201d Mr. Trebing said. \u201cOur workers send their kids there.\u201d Even members of the Austin Technology Council, which includes Samsung, identified an educated work force as among their biggest concerns for the area, according to a recent survey. Of the $231 million in incentives Samsung received, it donated $1 million back to Manor for a scholarship fund. The company also mentors district students. Catherine Morse, Samsung Austin\u2019s general counsel, said the abatements from the Manor school board were crucial because of the company\u2019s expensive machinery. Samsung also received $10.8 million from Mr. Perry\u2019s cash fund, but Ms. Morse said the money had not swung the decision. \u201cIt was more like it showed respect,\u201d she said. Ms. Morse noted that Samsung was still the county\u2019s largest taxpayer and that locating the facility in Texas had been a tough sell inside the company. \u201cIt was very unpopular to take jobs out of South Korea,\u201d she said. Samsung said it had created 2,500 jobs on its payroll and 2,000 more for contract employees. Ms. Morse said that 495 of those on its payroll lived in the Manor school district. The company is currently seeking additional incentives for a $4 billion retooling of its facility, though it is not expected to add many jobs. Amazon Plays Hardball Tarik Carlton gathered with other workers in February 2011 to hear the bad news: Amazon was shutting its distribution center in Irving, where he loaded trucks for $12.75 an hour. Business had been strong, but the online retailer did not want to pay a $269 million tax bill from the state comptroller. A standoff with the state ensued, and Amazon laid off the workers. \u201cThey didn\u2019t have our interests in heart, truth be told,\u201d Mr. Carlton said. Amazon opened the distribution facility in 2005 in Irving, near Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, and local officials awarded the company tax breaks on its inventory. Positions at the warehouse included product pickers, dock crews and truck loaders. The employees were typically on the young side, and some had served in the military. The warehouse churned through workers because many could not meet the quota of products they were supposed to move each day, according to Frankie Lloyd, who helped Amazon find temporary workers to fill many of the jobs. \u201cIt\u2019s all about what you can do physically,\u201d Ms. Lloyd said. \u201cLike manufacturing, but without the great pay.\u201d The distribution business grew as manufacturing moved overseas and online shopping boomed. It is big in the Dallas area because two main train lines run here from Long Beach, Calif., where goods arrive from Asia. The work is highly physical. One Amazon worker wore a step counter that logged five miles during one shift, according to Mr. Carlton, who only recently found a new job. He was among 12 former Amazon workers, including two warehouse managers, who agreed to be interviewed. There was no air-conditioning in the warehouse, and Mr. Carlton and others said the temperature could reach 115 degrees. They said it was difficult to take breaks given the production quotas. The pay was typically $11 to $15 an hour, Ms. Lloyd said. Amazon gave out small shares of stock and some bonuses, but the amounts were minimal, she said. Amazon said it had been working to upgrade its warehouses, which it calls fulfillment centers. The company has installed air-conditioning in all its centers over the past year, said Dave Clark, the vice president for global customer fulfillment. Mr. Clark said workers always received breaks, and sometimes free ice cream when the facilities did not have air-conditioning. He said the quotas were akin to \u201cexpectations that go along with every job, mine included.\u201d \u201cI really do think these jobs get a bad rap,\u201d Mr. Clark said. \u201cThey\u2019re great jobs. They\u2019re safe jobs.\u201d Mr. Carlton said he had no idea the company was being partly subsidized. \u201cIf you give them money, I think more should be expected,\u201d he said, adding that Amazon should have been required to hire more people to handle the heavy workload. John Bonnot, the director of business recruitment for the Irving Chamber of Commerce, said the city did not impose wage or benefit requirements on companies that received incentives. Irving had required that Amazon create only 10 jobs to receive the tax break. Mr. Bonnot said Amazon \u201cwould have nothing but praise\u201d for the original assistance from the state and the city, which outsources its economic development to the local chamber. Things began to slide downhill in late 2010 when the state comptroller, Ms. Combs, demanded that Amazon pay the $269 million sales tax bill. The retailer had never charged its Texas customers the tax, giving it an advantage over on-the-ground competitors. The company hired three powerful advocates with ties to the governor, according to state lobbyist disclosure records. One, Luis Saenz, had been the director of Mr. Perry\u2019s political operation. Days after the warehouse closed, Mr. Perry said he disagreed with the comptroller\u2019s decision to demand the taxes. As it was battling with the comptroller, Amazon began negotiating with the Legislature, which was debating whether online businesses should be required to charge sales tax. The company told lawmakers that it would create up to 6,000 jobs in exchange for delaying sales tax collections, similar to a compromise it had struck in states like South Carolina and Tennessee. The lawmaker with the most power in the decision was John Otto, a Republican member of the Texas House of Representatives. Like all Texas legislators, Mr. Otto\u2019s government job is part time. He also works at Ryan LLC \u2014 a job that is not disclosed on his legislative Web site. Mr. Otto drafted legislation that said online retailers like Amazon would not have to charge sales tax as long as it did not have distribution facilities in Texas. By then, the company had already shut the Irving warehouse. Mr. Otto and Mr. Saenz declined to comment about the legislation. Amazon would not comment on its negotiations with Texas. In July, Amazon began collecting sales tax from customers in Texas after the comptroller agreed to release the company from most of its $269 million bill. The company has also promised to open new distribution facilities and hire 2,500 workers. Amazon will owe the state a $1 million penalty if it fails to deliver. The math on the new deal angers former Amazon workers, especially those who are still unemployed. For Texas to give up more than $250 million in tax revenues in exchange for 2,500 jobs amounts to about $100,000 per job. Most distribution workers are paid $20,000 to $30,000 a year. The rest benefits the company\u2019s bottom line, which generally increases executive bonuses and shareholder returns. King White, a consultant who helps Amazon choose locations, would not comment on the online retailer but said that companies in general had come to view incentives as entitlements. \u201cEverybody thinks they deserve something,\u201d Mr. White said. \u201c\u00a0\u2018If I\u2019m creating jobs, what\u2019s in it for me?\u2019\u00a0\u201d The deal on the sales tax did not require Amazon to reopen the Irving facility. That touched off the latest state competition to win over Amazon. Last month, the city of Schertz beat out neighboring San Antonio for one of Amazon\u2019s warehouses. The company is currently in negotiations with Coppell, outside of Dallas, about an additional center. Like Schertz, Coppell has offered Amazon a deal to keep a part of the sales tax it collects there, among other incentives. If Amazon accepts, it will be located near Irving and many of its former workers. Sharon Sylvas, 47, had moved from Kansas seven years ago to help Amazon set up the Irving facility. She lives nearby in a one-bedroom apartment with her partner, daughter and two grandchildren. After Amazon closed, she was out of a job for over a year. With limited options, Ms. Sylvas took a temporary position in October at another company\u2019s distribution center. It is a tougher job than the one at Amazon, and it pays less. For $11 an hour, Ms. Sylvas moves heavy inventory and other items. She said that if Amazon returned to the area, she would work there again, despite the rigors of warehouse jobs. \u201cIt\u2019s real miserable,\u201d Ms. Sylvas said. \u201cBut you do it to make a living.\u201d Both Player and Referee For the past few months, a commission created by the Texas Legislature has been taking a broad look at the state\u2019s economic development efforts. It will report back in January with recommendations. Four members of the commission are specifically focused on evaluating the state\u2019s cash grants and the school tax abatement programs. This means that companies in Texas have a lot at stake in the panel\u2019s work. So does at least one of the commissioners: G. Brint Ryan. He was appointed to the commission by the state\u2019s lieutenant governor, David Dewhurst, who has received more than $150,000 in campaign donations from Mr. Ryan. At a meeting in mid-September, the panel invited business representatives to testify. Among them was Ms. Morse, the general counsel at Samsung Austin, who urged the commission to continue the school property tax program that benefits her company in the Manor district. During Ms. Morse\u2019s testimony, it went unmentioned that Samsung is a Ryan client. Ryan LLC had helped the company gain designation as an enterprise zone in 2010, enabling it to receive sales tax refunds from the state on many of its purchases, according to documents obtained by The Times under a public records request. Mr. Ryan said the commission had never asked him whom he represents. No representatives from Texas schools spoke at the hearing. But Mr. Ryan said in an interview that school financing and poverty could best be addressed by emphasizing economic activity. He noted his own humble beginnings. \u201cFrankly, I never got one single government handout,\u201d he said. Over the years, of course, Mr. Ryan has profited by helping many companies obtain checks from the government. In at least one instance, he was more eager to get the money than his client was. The client, a computer chip maker called Advanced Micro Devices, had hired Mr. Ryan\u2019s firm to review its books. But when the firm found what it believed would be a way to save more than $30 million in taxes, the chip maker decided it was not worth pursuing. Ryan LLC responded by suing its client, saying AMD owed it to the firm to seek the money. Ryan LLC would have received a cut of the savings. AMD declined to comment on the case, which was settled last year. But in a deposition contained in the court filings, a representative of the chip maker described numerous e-mails and phone calls by Mr. Ryan, who was trying to persuade the company to file for the refunds. \u201cIt\u2019s continuing evidence that they\u2019ve placed their interest above our own and continued to press this issue,\u201d the representative said. The company said Ryan LLC\u2019s behavior \u201cbordered on harassment.\u201d At one point, Mr. Ryan wrote to the chip maker\u2019s chief financial officer. \u201cAt stake is tens of millions of dollars in tax recovery and future tax savings on an issue I have WON for other fabs in Texas,\u201d he said, referring to fabrication facilities. The company\u2019s choice not to seek the tax break, Mr. Ryan said in a deposition, was an \u201cirrational and unreasonable decision.\u201d Lisa Schwartz and Lauren D\u2019Avolio contributed research. louise@nytimes.com, @louisestory"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/03\/business\/global\/eads-restructuring-expected-to-enhance-germanys-holding.html","body":"PARIS \u2014 The board of European Aeronautic Defense & Space, the parent company of Airbus, was expected as early as Monday evening to announce a significant restructuring of its core shareholder base that would, for the first time, give the German government a direct stake in the group on par with that of France.The restructuring, which was the subject of a board meeting late Sunday, would also dissolve a decade-old agreement that gave the two countries an effective veto over company strategy, a factor that contributed to the failure of a proposed merger between EADS and BAE Systems of Britain in October. In a statement Monday, EADS confirmed that it was in \u2018\u2018active\u2019\u2019 discussions with its core shareholder group \u2014 which includes the French government, the French conglomerate Lagard\u00e8re and the German carmaker Daimler \u2014 about potential changes to its ownership structure and governance and said a further announcement would be made\u00a0 \u2018\u2018as appropriate.\u2019\u2019 According to people familiar with the details of the plan, Germany was expected to acquire a 12 percent stake through its state-owned bank, KfW. The transaction was expected to involve a 7.5 percent stake currently held by a consortium of public- and private-sector German banks, as well as another 4.5 percent from Daimler, which presently owns 15 percent of the company. The French government, which already owns 15 percent of EADS directly, has agreed to relinquish 3 percent of its voting rights in the company, said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the change had not yet been formally approved. The French would continue to hold the full dividend rights of its 15 percent stake, but ownership of the other 3 percent would be transferred to a foundation, registered in the Netherlands, that would have no voting rights. A formal announcement of an accord was expected to be made before European stock markets opened on Tuesday, and possibly as early as Monday evening, the people said. A German government spokesman indicated Monday that an agreement was imminent. \u2018\u2018Efforts are being made to reach an agreement as quickly as possible,\u2019\u2019 Reuters quoted a German economy ministry spokesman as saying. French Finance Ministry officials did not immediately return calls seeking comment. Daimler and Lagard\u00e8re declined to comment. The new arrangement would end a shareholder pact that dates to the creation of EADS in 2000, which was designed to balance the national interests of France and Germany by giving a core\u00a0 group of shareholders special veto rights and the right to appoint the members of the company\u2019s 11-seat board. Those special rights would disappear under the new accord. The core shareholder group has until now included Daimler, as well as Lagard\u00e8re the French magazines and missiles conglomerate, which owns a 7.5 percent stake in EADS and whose chairman, Arnaud Lagard\u00e8re, is currently chairman of the EADS board. Both Daimler and Lagard\u00e8re have long made clear their desire to sell their stakes, which neither considers core to its operations. The dissolution of the shareholder agreement now frees\u00a0 the two companies to dispose of their holdings. Some of the shares could be sold on the open market, but people with knowledge of the talks said that EADS was also preparing a general share buyback offer that could absorb a significant portion of the outstanding Daimler and Lagard\u00e8re holdings. EADS was expected to call for an extraordinary meeting of all shareholders in the first quarter of next year to approve changes to the ownership structure, as well as a new slate of board directors. Mr. Lagard\u00e8re\u00a0 \u2014 who said last month that he expected to divest his EADS stake by the end of next year \u2014 was not expected to be renominated as chairman, although he was likely to be replaced by another Frenchman. According to EADS\u2019s bylaws, the chairman and chief executive must be split between a French and a German. Thomas Enders, who took over as chief executive in June, is a German. EADS has long sought a new shareholder arrangement that would preserve the politically sensitive balance of influence between France and Germany without subjecting key management decisions to the approval of politicians in Paris and Berlin. The impact of such political interference was on prominent display in October, when the German government led by Chancellor Angela Merkel failed to approve the EADS-BAE combination, sinking a deal that would have created the world\u2019s largest aerospace group."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/03\/business\/global\/03iht-srtaxwealth03.html","body":"With all the ominous talk of tax increases and a \u201cfiscal cliff\u201d if President Barack Obama and Congressional leaders cannot agree on a plan to avert automatic tax increases Dec. 31, some investors may be tempted to act soon to take advantage of current tax rates.But financial advisers say that in their rush to do something this year, investors might end up with regrets. \u201cAny time you make a decision purely for tax reasons, it has a way of coming back and biting you,\u201d said Mag Black-Scott, chief executive of Beverly Hills Wealth Management. \u201cCould you be at a 43 percent tax on dividends instead of 15 percent? The straight answer is yes, of course you could. But what if that doesn\u2019t happen? What if they increase just slightly?\u201d Various proposals are on the table, but the measures the wealthy say they worry most about are an increase in the capital gains rate to 20 percent from 15 percent, which would affect investments like stocks and second homes; an increase in the 15 percent tax on dividends; and a limitation on deductions, which would effectively increase the tax bill. For the truly wealthy, there is also the question of what will happen to estate and gift taxes. In addition, the health care law sets a 3.8 percent Medicare tax on investment income for individuals with more than $200,000 in annual income (and couples with more than $250,000). Taking taxes on capital gains as an example, Ms. Black-Scott, who started her career at Morgan Stanley in the late 1970s, said people needed to remember that the rates were 28 percent when Ronald Reagan was president. \u201cIf they go from 15 to 20 percent, is it really that bad?\u201d she asked. \u201cYou need to say, \u2018Do I like the stock?\u2019 If you do,\u201d she continued, \u201cwhy would you get rid of it?\u201d Here is a look at some of the top areas where short-term decisions based solely on taxes could end up hindering long-term investment goals. APPRECIATED STOCK Many people have large holdings in a single stock, often the result of having worked for a company for many years. And the stock may have appreciated significantly over that time. But if they are selling now solely for tax reasons, advisers say, they should not. The stock may continue to do well and more than compensate for increased capital gains. There is, however, an upside to decisions driven by an increase in the capital gains rate: Wealthier clients may finally be pushed to diversify their holdings. \u201cIf you have 75 percent of your wealth in one stock, then it\u2019s a really appropriate time to think about this,\u201d said Timothy R. Lee, managing director of Monument Wealth Management. If the increased tax rate \u201cis a motivating factor for some people, O.K. Letting go of that control and the pride that goes with it is a really difficult decision.\u201d Selling stock now may also make sense when it is in the form of stock options set to expire early next year. \u201cDo you want to take the risk the price will drop in January?\u201d asked Melissa Labant, director of the tax team at the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. \u201cWhat if we have a fiscal cliff or a change in the markets? If you\u2019re comfortable, do it now.\u201d Some investors may also fear that higher taxes will drive all stocks down. Patrick S. Boyle, investment strategist at Bessemer Trust, said there was no historical link between tax increases and stock market performance. In the most recent three tax increases, he said, \u201cthe market has actually gone up in the six months before and after.\u201d He added: \u201cIt\u2019s not that tax rates aren\u2019t important. They are. It\u2019s just that there are so many other things going on that are more important than tax policy.\u201d MUNICIPAL BONDS Bonds sold to finance state and local government projects are tax-free now and will be tax-free next year. That is no reason to load up on them. Tax-free municipal bonds have always been attractive to people in higher-income tax brackets. Now, advisers fear that individuals just above the $200,000 threshold, people who say they do not feel wealthy but will probably be paying higher taxes on their incomes and investments, will try to offset those increases by moving more of their investments into municipal bonds. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb"}][{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/03\/business\/media\/partnership-offers-support-for-public-media-ventures.html","body":"Can the nascent entrepreneurial ideas bouncing around Silicon Valley help reinvent public media? Matter Ventures, a start-up accelerator that will provide four months of financial and logistical support for budding media entrepreneurs, will be unveiled Monday by its partners: KQED, a public television and radio station operator; the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation; and the Public Radio Exchange, known as PRX. KQED, based in San Francisco, and the Knight Foundation are each investing $1.25 million in the initial $2.5 million fund and will have an equity stake in any projects that become viable businesses. PRX, based in Cambridge, Mass., is contributing strategic and management support. The project was announced a year ago as a PRX endeavor to be financed by Knight, before KQED became an investor. While the partners would love to find the next Google, KQED, which just had two years of record-setting revenue, does not expect to get rich from the venture, John Boland, KQED\u2019s president, said in a telephone interview. Instead, Mr. Boland said, he is looking for ideas, whether new ways to distribute and share content, raise money or allow KQED\u2019s audience to \u201cengage more deeply with the content and with others.\u201d The goal is to help KQED reinvent itself in an era where its television ratings have been steadily declining and its radio audience is flat, he said. Broadcast audiences have stagnated even as KQED\u2019s online and mobile audiences have boomed. Demand for its increased offering of local and regional news has been strong as commercial newspapers and television stations have cut back. Being in the Silicon Valley area, KQED should be \u201ctapping into the innovation ecosystem\u201d outside its doors, Mr. Boland said. He said the accelerator was \u201cspecifically designed to attract creative people, entrepreneurs, who have ideas that relate to what we\u2019re calling \u2018media for good.\u2019\u00a0\u201d Mark Perry, a KQED board member who is a general partner in the venture capital firm NEA, called the accelerator \u201ca tremendous opportunity.\u201d \u201cAs this new media world evolves we\u2019re going to need more innovation around \u2014 not the content development, because that we know how to do \u2014 but how these productions can be distributed in the most effective way across these multiple platforms,\u201d Mr. Perry said by telephone. \u201cIt\u2019s as much to stimulate the innovative side of our entire organization as it is to come up with any particular technique, particular technology or particular insight that may come out,\u201d he said. But entrepreneurs are likely to be attracted to the model because KQED is a potential customer for any project that does work, he said. Michael Maness, Knight Foundation\u2019s vice president for journalism and media innovation, in a telephone interview said the accelerator also has the potential to speed the learning process for entrepreneurs in the news business. The foundation will also be able to publicly share insights gained from the projects, unlike those generated by private equity accelerators, he added. The accelerator will be led by Corey Ford, a former producer for the PBS program \u201cFrontline.\u201d Mr. Ford most recently built Runway, an accelerator for the Google chairman Eric E. Schmidt\u2019s early stage venture capital firm, Innovation Endeavors. Matter Ventures will finance four rounds of five teams each over two years. Each of the 20 teams selected will get $50,000, mentoring from the KQED staff, and educational workshops, as well as work space in the Matter Ventures\u2019 headquarters in the South Park section of San Francisco, just blocks from KQED. \u201cA big part of this is about the culture and the community that you create,\u201d Mr. Ford said. Each round will end with a day of presentations to potential investors. Applications for the first class, which will begin work in late February, are being accepted through Jan. 6 at www.matter.vc."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/03\/world\/europe\/at-elite-french-university-one-hurdle-after-another.html","body":"It may turn out to be a good vintage for French wine, but 2012 has been a terrible year for the Institut d\u2019\u00c9tudes Politiques de Paris, the elite institute for political studies known as Sciences Po, which last week had its interim director removed by the French higher education minister, Genevi\u00e8ve Fioraso, who installed another candidate in his place.In April, the school\u2019s longtime director, Richard Descoings, was found dead in a New York hotel room. Officials ruled in May that he died of natural causes. Under Mr. Descoings\u2019s leadership the school instituted a controversial affirmative action program to recruit students from disadvantaged backgrounds, opened six satellite campuses and turned a feeder school for the French civil service into an international powerhouse that drew 40 percent of its students from outside France. Even before Mr. Descoings\u2019s death, the Cour des Comptes, the national audit office, had announced in October 2011 that it would investigate the university\u2019s accounts from 2005 to 2010. The Ministry of Higher Education and Research wanted the search for a new director to be delayed until the audit office could announce its findings, but the faculty pressed ahead with its search and on Oct. 30 nominated Herv\u00e9 Cr\u00e8s, a deputy to Mr. Descoings who had been acting director, to succeed him. Even though some details had been leaked to the French news media, when the national audit office formally published its findings on Nov. 22 the results were damning: Sciences Po was faulted for its \u201cweak internal and external controls,\u201d the \u201cabusive use of credit cards\u201d by staff members, \u201ctoxic loans\u201d for faculty housing and the practice of paying some professors more than others even though they had fewer teaching hours. According to French news reports, the investigation said that Mr. Descoings, whose gross annual pay was \u20ac537, 000, or about $700,000, was paid too much and in a manner that was \u201cnot transparent.\u201d By comparison, President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande of France is paid \u20ac179,000; his predecessor, Nicolas Sarkozy, received \u20ac255,600. Last week Ms. Fioraso announced that Jean Gaeremynck, the head of the finance section of the Conseil d\u2019\u00c9tat, or Council of State, would serve as the interim director of Sciences Po. The school, which receives just over half its financing from the French government, has a unique structure that divides responsibility between the Institut and the Fondation Nationale des Sciences Politiques, a private, nonprofit foundation that manages the school and presides over research. Traditionally, the same person has led both units, but Francis V\u00e9rillaud, vice president of the school, said that Mr. Gaeremynck would only head the institute. \u201cHerv\u00e9 Cr\u00e8s had been elected by both boards after a search procedure,\u201d Mr. V\u00e9rillaud said by telephone. \u201cNow that process has been interrupted.\u201d Mr. V\u00e9rillaud pointed out that while the audit office\u2019s report identified serious \u201cdysfunctions\u201d in the way the school was managed, no members of the administration had been singled out by name. \u201cSciences Po is a public university. When you use public money there has to be regulation and accountability,\u201d Mr. V\u00e9rillaud said. \u201cWe took this report very seriously. Sciences Po will make the corrections necessary.\u201d The school has already issued a 75-page response to the report promising corrective action. Some of the furor, however, appears to stem from Mr. Descoings\u2019s effort to transform the institution. French professors are civil servants, whose salaries and working hours are strictly controlled. It was difficult for Mr. Descoings to recruit the faculty he wanted without offering the kind of arrangements, on pay and teaching load, that were criticized by the auditors. \u201cDescoings was a visionary,\u201d Mr. V\u00e9rillaud said. \u201cIn a globalized world you have to adapt to survive, and sometimes institutions find it painful to change.\u201d"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/03\/world\/middleeast\/amid-euphoria-over-un-vote-palestinians-still-face-familiar-challenges.html","body":"RAMALLAH, West Bank \u2014 \u201cNow we have become a state!\u201d Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority, announced Sunday to a crowd of thousands in the courtyard of his headquarters in this Palestinian city.Flags and balloons, a marching band, and a huge poster on the outside wall of the compound proclaiming \u201cYou are now in the State of Palestine\u201d added a festive touch as Mr. Abbas returned home triumphant days after the United Nations General Assembly voted to enhance the standing of the Palestinians in the face of heavy Israeli and American opposition. But an airplane flying high above the compound served as a reminder that the Palestinians have no airport, and they depend on Israeli ports for access to the high seas for shipping. The traffic was as clogged as usual around the Israeli-controlled Qalandia checkpoint, which largely seals off Ramallah from Jerusalem, the eastern part of which has now been widely endorsed as the future Palestinian capital. At least in the short term, with Israeli elections scheduled for January, things are likely to get tougher for the Palestinians before they get better. In Jerusalem on Sunday, the Israeli government unanimously rejected the General Assembly\u2019s decision to upgrade the status of Palestine to a nonmember observer state of the United Nations. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu described the Palestinian move as \u201ca gross violation of the agreements that have been signed with the State of Israel.\u201d In its latest response, Israel said it would not transfer tax revenues it collected on behalf of the Palestinian Authority last month, instead using the money, about $100 million, to pay off about half the debt run up by the authority to the Israel Electric Corporation. The Palestinian Authority has already been suffering through a financial crisis, often unable to pay the salaries of its employees on time. Palestinian officials said that Arab countries had promised to donate funds and make up for any losses caused by punitive Israeli actions, though it was a shortfall in donor money, largely from Arab nations, that caused the financial crisis in the first place. Israel\u2019s financial sanctions followed a government decision to build 3,000 previously planned housing units in contested areas of Jerusalem and in parts of the West Bank that Israel intends to keep under any future arrangement with the Palestinians. The Palestinians have long refused to return to the negotiating table unless Israel halts the construction of settlements. The government has also decided to continue planning and zoning work for the development of a particularly contentious area of East Jerusalem known as E1, a project long condemned by Washington because it would harm the prospects for a contiguous Palestinian state, though privately, Israeli and Palestinian officials said that this last decision could be easily reversed. Mr. Abbas, for his part, was expected to hold meetings with the members of his leadership to discuss how to begin to translate the Palestinians\u2019 new status into practical steps. \u201cWe are celebrating our dignity,\u201d said Xavier Abu Eid, a Palestinian spokesman. \u201cOur small nation withstood a lot of pressure for something that is our right.\u201d But the way forward may be fraught with legal obstacles as the Palestinians try to balance their diplomatic victory with the demands of their previous, more concrete achievements. Israel signed its agreements with the Palestine Liberation Organization, which resulted in the creation of an interim self-rule body, the Palestinian Authority. Asked whether the Palestinian Authority would remain the Palestinian Authority in name, Mr. Abu Eid said: \u201cThat requires a decision of the leadership. I think it will not be changed in a day.\u201d Palestinian officials have insisted that they will not give up the option of seeking to join the International Criminal Court and pursuing claims against Israel, and some Palestinians now expect their leaders to take legal action against the Israelis\u2019 settlement building. Letters of application for membership in various United Nations bodies and international agencies have been signed \u201cThe State of Palestine.\u201d But the Palestinians may not rush to change the name on the front of their passports to Palestine. Even Mr. Abbas is dependent on Israel\u2019s good graces to be allowed to travel through checkpoints and across borders. Many Palestinians were hoping that Mr. Abbas would now seek genuine reconciliation with his rivals in Hamas, the Islamic militant group that controls Gaza. \u201cUnity is the most important step,\u201d said Malik Barghouti, an employee of the authority\u2019s Finance Ministry in Ramallah. \u201cWe are one people.\u201d But if there is no tangible change on the ground, some Palestinians warned, the celebrations could eventually be eclipsed by frustration. \u201cMost people here think we now have lots of rights,\u201d said Mahmoud Mansour, 22, a student of electrical engineering from Jenin in the northern West Bank, who attended the welcome rally. \u201cWhen they realize that nothing has changed, they will be angry.\u201d Khaled Abu Aker contributed reporting."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/03\/us\/winners-and-losers-in-texas.html","body":"DALLAS \u2014 The Preston Hollow neighborhood has been home to many of Texas\u2019 rich and powerful \u2014 George and Laura Bush, Mark Cuban, T. Boone Pickens, Ross Perot. So it is hardly surprising that a recent political fund-raiser was held there on the back terrace of a 20,000-square-foot home overlooking lush gardens with life-size bronze statues of the host\u2019s daughters. The guest of honor was Gov. Rick Perry, but the man behind the event was not one of the enclave\u2019s boldface names. He was a tax consultant named G. Brint Ryan. Mr. Ryan\u2019s specialty is helping clients like ExxonMobil and Neiman Marcus secure state and local tax breaks and other business incentives. It is a good line of work in Texas. Under Mr. Perry, Texas gives out more of the incentives than any other state, around $19 billion a year, an examination by The New York Times has found. Texas justifies its largess by pointing out that it is home to half of all the private sector jobs created over the last decade nationwide. As the invitation to the fund-raiser boasted: \u201cTexas leads the nation in job creation.\u201d Yet the raw numbers mask a more complicated reality behind the flood of incentives, the examination shows, and raise questions about who benefits more, the businesses or the people of Texas. Along with the huge job growth, the state has the third-highest proportion of hourly jobs paying at or below minimum wage. And despite its low level of unemployment, Texas has the 11th-highest poverty rate among states. \u201cWhile economic development is the mantra of most officials, there\u2019s a question of when does economic development end and corporate welfare begin,\u201d said Dale Craymer, the president of the Texas Taxpayers and Research Association, a group supported by business that favors incentives programs. In a state that markets itself as \u201cwide open for business,\u201d the lines are often blurred between decision makers and beneficiaries, according to interviews with dozens of state and local officials and corporate representatives. The government in many instances is relying on businesses and consultants like Mr. Ryan for suggestions on what incentives to grant and which companies should receive them, as well as on other factors that directly affect public spending and budgets, the interviews show. Mr. Ryan does not claim to be neutral on where the money should go. \u201cIt\u2019s widely known that I represent a lot of taxpayers,\u201d he said in an interview. \u201cI have client relationships with people who hopefully, if they invest in Texas, they\u2019ll receive incentives.\u201d Granting corporate incentives has become standard operating procedure for state and local governments across the country. The Times investigation found that the governments collectively give incentives worth at least $80 billion a year. The free flow of tax breaks and subsidies in Texas makes it particularly fertile ground to examine these economic development deals and the fundamental trade-off behind them: the more states give to businesses, the less they have available in the short term to spend on basic services, a calculation made more stark by the recession. To help balance its budget last year, Texas cut public education spending by $5.4 billion \u2014 a significant decrease considering that it already ranked 11th from the bottom among all states in per-pupil financing, according to recent data from the Census Bureau. Yet highly profitable companies like Dow Chemical and Texas Instruments continue to enjoy hefty discounts on their school tax bills through one of the state\u2019s economic development programs. In the Manor school district, which comprises the town and part of Austin, Samsung has been awarded more than $231 million in incentives from state and local officials. But the recent budget cuts have left the district with crowded classes and fewer programs. Mr. Perry, who took office at the end of 2000, has been a longtime proponent of lowering taxes. He said in an interview that companies could put the money to better use than the government and would spend it in ways that would create jobs and help Texans. \u201cFacebook, eBay, Apple \u2014 all of those within the last two years have announced major expansions in Texas,\u201d Mr. Perry said. \u201cThey\u2019re coming because it is given, it is covenant, in these boardrooms across America, that our tax structure, regulatory climate and legal environment are very positive to those businesses.\u201d He acknowledged that the state\u2019s job growth was not erasing persistent poverty, saying that \u201cwe are going to have people that fall through the cracks.\u201d He said creating jobs was the best way to help Texans, who \u201cdon\u2019t want government assistance when they can do it themselves.\u201d But relying on companies does not always turn out well. When Amazon set up a distribution center outside Dallas, it received incentives from the state. Six years later, when the company got into a tax dispute with the state, it shut the warehouse, which employed as many as 2,000 people during its peak season. Nationwide, a whole industry of consultants has grown up around state efforts to lure companies with incentives. Companies like Ernst & Young, Deloitte and Automatic Data Processing, a payroll company, have divisions dedicated to helping companies search for the best deals. Mr. Ryan\u2019s Dallas-based firm, Ryan LLC, operates in 27 states and seven countries and represents numerous Fortune 500 companies. Texas alone is a big source of business for Mr. Ryan, who has won tax refunds of more than $20 million each for ExxonMobil and Raytheon. This year, he sought similar amounts for Verizon, Freescale Semiconductor and several other companies, according to state documents obtained through an open records request. At the same time, Mr. Ryan has become one of the state\u2019s most generous political donors. He co-founded a political action committee last year that supported Mr. Perry\u2019s bid for the Republican presidential nomination and donated $250,000. Even as business leaders press local governments to give out more incentives, they warn against requiring too much in return. In Travis County, which includes Austin, commissioners recently passed new rules for companies that receive tax abatements. One requires paying employees $11 an hour, an amount the county considers to be a living wage. The rules had been contested by the business community. \u201cThe more stipulations you put into an agreement, the more complicated it becomes and the less competitive we become,\u201d Gary Farmer, a local business leader who runs an insurance company, told the county commissioners at a hearing. \u201cWe\u2019re concerned about including a living wage into the policy, as we believe that could have a chilling effect on certain companies.\u201d The Money Starts Flowing When Mr. Perry became governor in 2000, Texas was not a major player in the incentives game. He quickly got his first taste during a bidding war among states when Boeing was hunting for a new location for its headquarters. Texas ultimately lost to Illinois, which awarded Boeing $52.5 million in incentives, but the episode was a turning point. \u201cWe came back in here after we lost that,\u201d Mr. Perry said, \u201cand we analyzed our economic development efforts, and that\u2019s when we started making some changes.\u201d Mr. Perry got the money flowing through two new cash funds created to recruit businesses. One, the Texas Enterprise Fund, awarded more than $410 million over eight years, according to the governor\u2019s office, and the recipients said they would create more than 54,000 jobs. The fund requires companies that do not meet their job targets to return incentive money. The state has also embraced a popular program that establishes enterprise zones where companies can receive refunds on some taxes they pay in exchange for moving there. The exemption has added up to big money for retailers like Walmart. Not coincidentally, the company has opened stores in similar enterprise zones across the country. Walmart owed some of its other tax savings to Mr. Ryan, who counted the retailer among his earliest clients in the 1990s. Once an accounting firm, Ryan LLC transformed itself in recent years into a powerhouse focused on corporate tax breaks. Mr. Ryan is a familiar presence at the state comptroller\u2019s office in Austin, which must sign off on many tax breaks. He is known there for his laser focus and forceful negotiating skills. \u201cIt\u2019s gloves-off, full-frontal assault,\u201d said a former official, who requested anonymity because of state confidentiality rules. Mr. Ryan agrees that he is aggressive, saying that \u201cguys like me are all that stand between the government fleecing taxpayers.\u201d He has at times filed lawsuits over tax rules he does not like, including one against the head of the Internal Revenue Service and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. In one of his most lucrative deals, Mr. Ryan in 2006 helped Texas Instruments win tens of millions of dollars in tax refunds, according to the comptroller\u2019s office. Ryan LLC often gets to keep around 30 percent of its clients\u2019 awards, according to former employees. That same year, Mr. Ryan was a top donor to the campaign of the comptroller at the time, Carole Keeton Strayhorn, personally giving $250,000, according to campaign finance records. Over the course of Ms. Strayhorn\u2019s tenure, Mr. Ryan, his employees and his company\u2019s PAC would donate nearly $3 million, including when the comptroller ran for governor, the records show. He and his employees have made campaign contributions to the current comptroller, Susan Combs, totaling more than $600,000. Ms. Strayhorn declined to comment, and a representative for Ms. Combs said the donations did not affect her decisions. Since 2000, Mr. Ryan and his wife, Amanda, have contributed over $4 million to a variety of state officials and political causes, including the governor. Mr. Perry declined to comment on Mr. Ryan, but at a local event in 2010 he called him \u201cthe type of visionary that every community wants to have,\u201d according to The Abilene Reporter-News. Mr. Ryan said that he gave to candidates in many states and that his donations brought extra scrutiny, not favorable treatment. Others see it differently. \u201cWhen you give money to a state regulator who you appear before, there are potential conflicts of interest,\u201d said Craig McDonald, the executive director of Texans for Public Justice, a liberal watchdog group. \u201cAnd Texas law is way too weak in allowing those conflicts to exist.\u201d Mr. Ryan set his own sights on public office in 2009, running for the Dallas City Council on a platform that pushed cutting public spending. Simultaneously, Mr. Ryan was pursuing state aid for his own company, applying for an enterprise zone designation for his business. Mr. Ryan lost the race but won the incentive. \u201cIn these tough economic times, our city officials must use every tool available to ensure job growth and expand the tax base,\u201d he said of the award in a news release. Mr. Perry has made corporate recruitment a hallmark of his administration. The governor frequently makes trips to cities like Chicago, New York and San Francisco to lure prospective businesses. During a visit to San Diego in June, he proudly told local officials that about a third of the companies moving to Texas were from California, said Ruben Barrales, the chief executive of the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce. \u201cGovernor Perry is here quite a bit,\u201d Mr. Barrales said. \u201cHe meets with companies. He\u2019s letting people know if they\u2019re interested in further growth, Texas will greet them with open arms. He\u2019s not very shy about it.\u201d Asked if he had qualms about taking jobs from other states, Mr. Perry said, \u201cCompetition is what drives this country.\u201d A nonprofit group called TexasOne recommends potential businesses to the governor and then pays for his travel and other expenses during the recruiting trips. The group is financed by large corporations like Shell and AT&T, as well as by consultants like Ryan LLC. The governor\u2019s office allocates the awards, which state records show amount to millions of dollars each year. In the enterprise zone program, 82 of the 222 awards granted from March 2008 to June 2012 went to companies represented by Mr. Ryan\u2019s firm, according to public records provided by the governor\u2019s office. The list included General Motors, Tyson Foods and the German chemical giant BASF. Until recently, the cash incentives were overseen in Mr. Perry\u2019s office by a top aide, Roberto De Hoyos. In September, Mr. De Hoyos took a new job \u2014 at Ryan LLC. Companies Gain, Schools Lose Lines of new students show up each August at the public schools in Manor. The town is mostly rural, with fields of hay and cattle in every direction. Some of the students\u2019 families came to double up with relatives or friends, others were pushed outward by Austin\u2019s gentrification. Downtown Manor consists of a couple of blocks lined with spots like Ramos Cocina and a smoke-filled convenience store. There are few doctors and no real place to buy groceries. About six miles away, a fabrication plant for the South Korean company Samsung looms over one of Manor\u2019s elementary schools, a symbol of corporate interests juxtaposed with a pillar of public spending. The complex, which makes memory chips for smartphones and other products, includes some of the largest buildings in the area: one covers 1.6 million square feet, or about nine football fields. Since Mr. Perry took office, companies have seen a drop in their school property taxes because of a special incentives program, as well as an across-the-board cut in the school tax rate. The recession has made the squeeze all the more difficult for schools. In the Manor district, spending shrank by about $540 per student this year, according to the Equity Center, an advocacy group for Texas schools. The cuts came even as school enrollment has nearly tripled since 2000. The cracks in financing were on display this summer, as families filled a school cafeteria to register for a prekindergarten program with shortened days. For parents like Tommy and Melissa Sifuentes, the cutback means they have to leave work early or hire a baby sitter. \u201cIt\u2019s harder,\u201d said Ms. Sifuentes, who is still grateful that her son will learn socialization skills at school. About 80 percent of Manor\u2019s students are low-income, according to the E3 Alliance, a nonprofit group in Austin that focuses on education. For about a third of the 8,000 students, English is a second language. In 2005, Manor\u2019s school board gave Samsung eight years of tax abatements worth $112 million as part of the company\u2019s incentives package for its fabrication plant. Under the special incentives program, known as Chapter 313, school boards approve tax abatements for companies. The state then reimburses the district for the amounts they give up. In many districts, the awards were granted after little review. Robert Schneider, a member of Austin\u2019s school board, said the district was nonchalant when it gave an abatement to Hewlett-Packard in 2006. \u201cThe board took it as \u2018we don\u2019t lose in this deal,\u2019 because we knew we were going to get reimbursed by the state,\u201d Mr. Schneider said. \u201cI can tell you there wasn\u2019t any analysis done that said, \u2018Ten, 15 years from now, they will be here and we\u2019ll get such and such out of it.\u2019\u00a0\u201d School boards statewide have approved abatements worth at least $1.9 billion through the program, according to the comptroller\u2019s office. Although the districts are not paying for the abatements themselves, budget experts point out that the reimbursements come from the state\u2019s general fund, which like most state treasuries is running low. In Texas, tax revenues for schools took a direct hit when Mr. Perry created a commission in 2005 to evaluate the state\u2019s tax system. The State Supreme Court was questioning districts\u2019 property tax rates and warned of a school shutdown if legislators did not intervene. The tax rates had been criticized for years by businesses and residents, but some districts countered that they could not afford to cut them without additional state financing. Mr. Perry turned to John Sharp, a Democrat and former comptroller, to lead the commission. At the time, Mr. Sharp worked for Ryan LLC. The commission called for districts to cut school property taxes by around one-third. To make up for some of the lost revenue, it recommended adding a business tax, as well as increasing some sales taxes. \u201cI did what I thought was the best for the state of Texas,\u201d said Mr. Sharp, adding that his position at Ryan LLC did not affect his decisions. \u201cWe saved the state of Texas from complete collapse of the school system, and I\u2019m very proud of that.\u201d Mr. Sharp left Ryan last year to become the chancellor of Texas A&M University. In 2006, the Legislature largely adopted the commission\u2019s proposals and required the state to give districts billions of dollars to allow time for the business tax to make up the difference. Some six years later, things have not worked out as planned. The business tax has not yielded anywhere near what Mr. Sharp\u2019s panel projected, and the state has cut its aid to the districts by $5.4 billion. A spokeswoman for Mr. Perry noted that one of the state\u2019s cash incentive funds was also cut back. Leslie Whitworth, who oversees the curriculum in Manor, said that the district was doing its best to make do with less, but that \u201cit wears on people, the constant crisis, the constant increases in students and constant pressure on budgets.\u201d Among other things, the cuts have meant overcrowding across Texas: the number of classrooms over the state\u2019s student limit nearly quadrupled last year. Some companies recognize the trade-off. Daimler, the German maker of the Mercedes-Benz, accepts incentives in the United States but tries to avoid ones that come out of school budgets, said David Trebing, who manages the company\u2019s relationship with local governments. \u201cWe want to make sure they have enough money for their schools,\u201d Mr. Trebing said. \u201cOur workers send their kids there.\u201d Even members of the Austin Technology Council, which includes Samsung, identified an educated work force as among their biggest concerns for the area, according to a recent survey. Of the $231 million in incentives Samsung received, it donated $1 million back to Manor for a scholarship fund. The company also mentors district students. Catherine Morse, Samsung Austin\u2019s general counsel, said the abatements from the Manor school board were crucial because of the company\u2019s expensive machinery. Samsung also received $10.8 million from Mr. Perry\u2019s cash fund, but Ms. Morse said the money had not swung the decision. \u201cIt was more like it showed respect,\u201d she said. Ms. Morse noted that Samsung was still the county\u2019s largest taxpayer and that locating the facility in Texas had been a tough sell inside the company. \u201cIt was very unpopular to take jobs out of South Korea,\u201d she said. Samsung said it had created 2,500 jobs on its payroll and 2,000 more for contract employees. Ms. Morse said that 495 of those on its payroll lived in the Manor school district. The company is currently seeking additional incentives for a $4 billion retooling of its facility, though it is not expected to add many jobs. Amazon Plays Hardball Tarik Carlton gathered with other workers in February 2011 to hear the bad news: Amazon was shutting its distribution center in Irving, where he loaded trucks for $12.75 an hour. Business had been strong, but the online retailer did not want to pay a $269 million tax bill from the state comptroller. A standoff with the state ensued, and Amazon laid off the workers. \u201cThey didn\u2019t have our interests in heart, truth be told,\u201d Mr. Carlton said. Amazon opened the distribution facility in 2005 in Irving, near Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, and local officials awarded the company tax breaks on its inventory. Positions at the warehouse included product pickers, dock crews and truck loaders. The employees were typically on the young side, and some had served in the military. The warehouse churned through workers because many could not meet the quota of products they were supposed to move each day, according to Frankie Lloyd, who helped Amazon find temporary workers to fill many of the jobs. \u201cIt\u2019s all about what you can do physically,\u201d Ms. Lloyd said. \u201cLike manufacturing, but without the great pay.\u201d The distribution business grew as manufacturing moved overseas and online shopping boomed. It is big in the Dallas area because two main train lines run here from Long Beach, Calif., where goods arrive from Asia. The work is highly physical. One Amazon worker wore a step counter that logged five miles during one shift, according to Mr. Carlton, who only recently found a new job. He was among 12 former Amazon workers, including two warehouse managers, who agreed to be interviewed. There was no air-conditioning in the warehouse, and Mr. Carlton and others said the temperature could reach 115 degrees. They said it was difficult to take breaks given the production quotas. The pay was typically $11 to $15 an hour, Ms. Lloyd said. Amazon gave out small shares of stock and some bonuses, but the amounts were minimal, she said. Amazon said it had been working to upgrade its warehouses, which it calls fulfillment centers. The company has installed air-conditioning in all its centers over the past year, said Dave Clark, the vice president for global customer fulfillment. Mr. Clark said workers always received breaks, and sometimes free ice cream when the facilities did not have air-conditioning. He said the quotas were akin to \u201cexpectations that go along with every job, mine included.\u201d \u201cI really do think these jobs get a bad rap,\u201d Mr. Clark said. \u201cThey\u2019re great jobs. They\u2019re safe jobs.\u201d Mr. Carlton said he had no idea the company was being partly subsidized. \u201cIf you give them money, I think more should be expected,\u201d he said, adding that Amazon should have been required to hire more people to handle the heavy workload. John Bonnot, the director of business recruitment for the Irving Chamber of Commerce, said the city did not impose wage or benefit requirements on companies that received incentives. Irving had required that Amazon create only 10 jobs to receive the tax break. Mr. Bonnot said Amazon \u201cwould have nothing but praise\u201d for the original assistance from the state and the city, which outsources its economic development to the local chamber. Things began to slide downhill in late 2010 when the state comptroller, Ms. Combs, demanded that Amazon pay the $269 million sales tax bill. The retailer had never charged its Texas customers the tax, giving it an advantage over on-the-ground competitors. The company hired three powerful advocates with ties to the governor, according to state lobbyist disclosure records. One, Luis Saenz, had been the director of Mr. Perry\u2019s political operation. Days after the warehouse closed, Mr. Perry said he disagreed with the comptroller\u2019s decision to demand the taxes. As it was battling with the comptroller, Amazon began negotiating with the Legislature, which was debating whether online businesses should be required to charge sales tax. The company told lawmakers that it would create up to 6,000 jobs in exchange for delaying sales tax collections, similar to a compromise it had struck in states like South Carolina and Tennessee. The lawmaker with the most power in the decision was John Otto, a Republican member of the Texas House of Representatives. Like all Texas legislators, Mr. Otto\u2019s government job is part time. He also works at Ryan LLC \u2014 a job that is not disclosed on his legislative Web site. Mr. Otto drafted legislation that said online retailers like Amazon would not have to charge sales tax as long as it did not have distribution facilities in Texas. By then, the company had already shut the Irving warehouse. Mr. Otto and Mr. Saenz declined to comment about the legislation. Amazon would not comment on its negotiations with Texas. In July, Amazon began collecting sales tax from customers in Texas after the comptroller agreed to release the company from most of its $269 million bill. The company has also promised to open new distribution facilities and hire 2,500 workers. Amazon will owe the state a $1 million penalty if it fails to deliver. The math on the new deal angers former Amazon workers, especially those who are still unemployed. For Texas to give up more than $250 million in tax revenues in exchange for 2,500 jobs amounts to about $100,000 per job. Most distribution workers are paid $20,000 to $30,000 a year. The rest benefits the company\u2019s bottom line, which generally increases executive bonuses and shareholder returns. King White, a consultant who helps Amazon choose locations, would not comment on the online retailer but said that companies in general had come to view incentives as entitlements. \u201cEverybody thinks they deserve something,\u201d Mr. White said. \u201c\u00a0\u2018If I\u2019m creating jobs, what\u2019s in it for me?\u2019\u00a0\u201d The deal on the sales tax did not require Amazon to reopen the Irving facility. That touched off the latest state competition to win over Amazon. Last month, the city of Schertz beat out neighboring San Antonio for one of Amazon\u2019s warehouses. The company is currently in negotiations with Coppell, outside of Dallas, about an additional center. Like Schertz, Coppell has offered Amazon a deal to keep a part of the sales tax it collects there, among other incentives. If Amazon accepts, it will be located near Irving and many of its former workers. Sharon Sylvas, 47, had moved from Kansas seven years ago to help Amazon set up the Irving facility. She lives nearby in a one-bedroom apartment with her partner, daughter and two grandchildren. After Amazon closed, she was out of a job for over a year. With limited options, Ms. Sylvas took a temporary position in October at another company\u2019s distribution center. It is a tougher job than the one at Amazon, and it pays less. For $11 an hour, Ms. Sylvas moves heavy inventory and other items. She said that if Amazon returned to the area, she would work there again, despite the rigors of warehouse jobs. \u201cIt\u2019s real miserable,\u201d Ms. Sylvas said. \u201cBut you do it to make a living.\u201d Both Player and Referee For the past few months, a commission created by the Texas Legislature has been taking a broad look at the state\u2019s economic development efforts. It will report back in January with recommendations. Four members of the commission are specifically focused on evaluating the state\u2019s cash grants and the school tax abatement programs. This means that companies in Texas have a lot at stake in the panel\u2019s work. So does at least one of the commissioners: G. Brint Ryan. He was appointed to the commission by the state\u2019s lieutenant governor, David Dewhurst, who has received more than $150,000 in campaign donations from Mr. Ryan. At a meeting in mid-September, the panel invited business representatives to testify. Among them was Ms. Morse, the general counsel at Samsung Austin, who urged the commission to continue the school property tax program that benefits her company in the Manor district. During Ms. Morse\u2019s testimony, it went unmentioned that Samsung is a Ryan client. Ryan LLC had helped the company gain designation as an enterprise zone in 2010, enabling it to receive sales tax refunds from the state on many of its purchases, according to documents obtained by The Times under a public records request. Mr. Ryan said the commission had never asked him whom he represents. No representatives from Texas schools spoke at the hearing. But Mr. Ryan said in an interview that school financing and poverty could best be addressed by emphasizing economic activity. He noted his own humble beginnings. \u201cFrankly, I never got one single government handout,\u201d he said. Over the years, of course, Mr. Ryan has profited by helping many companies obtain checks from the government. In at least one instance, he was more eager to get the money than his client was. The client, a computer chip maker called Advanced Micro Devices, had hired Mr. Ryan\u2019s firm to review its books. But when the firm found what it believed would be a way to save more than $30 million in taxes, the chip maker decided it was not worth pursuing. Ryan LLC responded by suing its client, saying AMD owed it to the firm to seek the money. Ryan LLC would have received a cut of the savings. AMD declined to comment on the case, which was settled last year. But in a deposition contained in the court filings, a representative of the chip maker described numerous e-mails and phone calls by Mr. Ryan, who was trying to persuade the company to file for the refunds. \u201cIt\u2019s continuing evidence that they\u2019ve placed their interest above our own and continued to press this issue,\u201d the representative said. The company said Ryan LLC\u2019s behavior \u201cbordered on harassment.\u201d At one point, Mr. Ryan wrote to the chip maker\u2019s chief financial officer. \u201cAt stake is tens of millions of dollars in tax recovery and future tax savings on an issue I have WON for other fabs in Texas,\u201d he said, referring to fabrication facilities. The company\u2019s choice not to seek the tax break, Mr. Ryan said in a deposition, was an \u201cirrational and unreasonable decision.\u201d Lisa Schwartz and Lauren D\u2019Avolio contributed research. louise@nytimes.com, @louisestory"},{"url":"http:\/\/query.nytimes.com\/gst\/fullpage.html?res=9F00E0DB123AF930A35751C1A9649D8B63","body":"Two years ago, smugglers buried a woman named Joselyn in Matamoros, a Mexican border city that attracts immigrants waiting to cross into the United States. Several men encased her body in dirt, covered her face with leaves and told her to wait until Border Patrol agents had disappeared to dig herself out. For Joselyn, who is transgender, the process of being buried alive was nothing new. Growing up in Guatemala, she had suffocated beneath a barrage of insults and physical attacks from her family, her neighbors and her peers, she said. And with Mexican gangs moving south, violence against gays and transgender people was becoming more frequent. So at 19, Joselyn set off on an 18-day journey to the United States and eventually made it to New York City. She spent 10 months alone. \"I isolated myself from everyone,\" Joselyn, who asked that her last name not be used because she is here illegally, said in Spanish. \"I said, 'What's the point? If my mama didn't even love me, why should I seek help?'\" But this summer, she met another transgender Latina who encouraged her to join a support group started by the AIDS Center of Queens County. \"I felt like a bird when someone opens its cage and it can fly,\" she said. Since 2008, a growing number of transgender Latinas have gathered in Queens every Friday night, discussing challenges unfamiliar to many New Yorkers: Where do I buy female hormones without a prescription? How do I avoid the police when reporting a drug overdose? Who can help me find a lawyer familiar with asylum petitions? Conducted in Spanish, the sessions are aimed at those who have emigrated, most illegally, from Latin American countries where violence toward gay and transgender people is common. The group provides participants with concrete knowledge and life skills. But above all, it is a refuge that helps build self-esteem and unites a community. The group meets in a tiny conference room in Jackson Heights. On a recent Friday, the space was filled and the group's facilitator, Cecilia Gentili, stood in front as Deyanira Santamaria told the story of a man she loved who scalded her with boiling water. She still bears the scars. When she finished, other participants surged toward Ms. Santamaria, stroking her hair and squeezing her shoulders. \"From that love you've lost,\" Ms. Gentili told her, \"you now have the love of all of us.\" While nearly all members identify as transgender women, the group is as diverse as any community in New York: A few participants are exploring a new identity and look like men. Others are distinctly female and are taking hormones and injecting silicone in their hips and breasts to alter their shape. What they have in common is that being transgender and an immigrant has made a steady paycheck and a stable home difficult to achieve. \"First of all, it's hard to find a job because you're trans,\" Ms. Gentili said. \"Second of all, it's hard to find a job because you're illegal. Third of all, it's hard to find a job because maybe you don't speak English.\" To make money, some have worked as prostitutes; to cope with stress, several began doing drugs. They have had to find ways to finance their gender transitions, which can include costly surgeries and silicone and hormone injections purchased in back rooms along Roosevelt Avenue. But Joselyn has no desire to go back home. In Jutiapa, Guatemala, she worked at a carwash. After work one night, several men assaulted her because, she said, they knew she was transgender. A two-inch gash on her right hand reminds her of the attack. While most countries do not track the killings of transgender people, the Trans Murder Monitoring Project attempts to tally the deaths by compiling news reports. According to the project, about 80 percent of the 806 homicides of transgender people reported since 2008 occurred in Central and South America. Experts offer a variety of explanations, including homophobia, rising gang violence, broad impunity for perpetrators and a general mistrust of the police in many Latin American countries. \"These numbers only touch the surface\" of the problem, said Jessica Stern, the executive director of the International Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission. \"Only the most high-profile cases are counted.\" When Dennis Camacho, who works for the AIDS Center of Queens County, created the transgender support group, he did not intend to force anyone to stop using drugs or leave behind prostitution. Instead, he aimed to create a space where people could discuss their lives openly. \"It's up to the individual if she wants to stop,\" he said. \"If they do, we help them figure out where they want to go.\" And during the group's four years, several members have applied for and been granted political asylum and have found jobs. In Argentina, Ms. Gentili lived a dual life, as a man during the day and a woman at night, in an era before her country became a model for its progressive policies toward lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgender people. When she arrived in New York in 2000, she discovered heroin and crack cocaine, and plunged into a downward spiral that led to multiple arrests and, eventually, a deportation order. \"When I got into supervision my supervisor told me, 'Are you going to wait to just be deported?'\" Ms. Gentili said. \"I didn't even know I could get asylum.\" She was granted asylum in 2011. Besides the AIDS Center of Queens County, she has a part-time job at the Asian and Pacific Islander Coalition on HIV\/AIDS. The support group, Ms. Gentili said, was instrumental in her transformation. Inspired by the group, Joselyn has also begun to apply for asylum. At one meeting, she sat in the middle of the room wearing dark sunglasses. When she lowered them, she uncovered a bloodied, blackened left eye. Red scratches covered her chest. She had been beaten, she said, by a client who had come to her for sex. Joselyn did not go to the police. Like many of the other women, she feared deportation, assumed that violence against her would be ignored, and believed that the police would treat her like a criminal instead of a victim. In many ways, her life is just as dangerous as it was in Guatemala. But if asylum is granted, all that could change. Armed with papers, she can find a job, learn English, maybe open the bar she often dreams about. In Guatemala, \"the people in your family begin to cut you out, like you have a contagious disease,\" she said. \"They don't love you or even see you.\" In the transgender group here, \"one can speak, one can express themselves, one can explain how they feel,\" Joselyn said. \"Generally other people won't understand. But we understand each other. We're in the same situation, understand?\" This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. PHOTO: Cecilia Gentili leads a support group for transgender Latinas, who gather in Jackson Heights, Queens, on Fridays. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR J. BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/03\/business\/global\/03iht-srtaxwealth03.html","body":"With all the ominous talk of tax increases and a \u201cfiscal cliff\u201d if President Barack Obama and Congressional leaders cannot agree on a plan to avert automatic tax increases Dec. 31, some investors may be tempted to act soon to take advantage of current tax rates.But financial advisers say that in their rush to do something this year, investors might end up with regrets. \u201cAny time you make a decision purely for tax reasons, it has a way of coming back and biting you,\u201d said Mag Black-Scott, chief executive of Beverly Hills Wealth Management. \u201cCould you be at a 43 percent tax on dividends instead of 15 percent? The straight answer is yes, of course you could. But what if that doesn\u2019t happen? What if they increase just slightly?\u201d Various proposals are on the table, but the measures the wealthy say they worry most about are an increase in the capital gains rate to 20 percent from 15 percent, which would affect investments like stocks and second homes; an increase in the 15 percent tax on dividends; and a limitation on deductions, which would effectively increase the tax bill. For the truly wealthy, there is also the question of what will happen to estate and gift taxes. In addition, the health care law sets a 3.8 percent Medicare tax on investment income for individuals with more than $200,000 in annual income (and couples with more than $250,000). Taking taxes on capital gains as an example, Ms. Black-Scott, who started her career at Morgan Stanley in the late 1970s, said people needed to remember that the rates were 28 percent when Ronald Reagan was president. \u201cIf they go from 15 to 20 percent, is it really that bad?\u201d she asked. \u201cYou need to say, \u2018Do I like the stock?\u2019 If you do,\u201d she continued, \u201cwhy would you get rid of it?\u201d Here is a look at some of the top areas where short-term decisions based solely on taxes could end up hindering long-term investment goals. APPRECIATED STOCK Many people have large holdings in a single stock, often the result of having worked for a company for many years. And the stock may have appreciated significantly over that time. But if they are selling now solely for tax reasons, advisers say, they should not. The stock may continue to do well and more than compensate for increased capital gains. There is, however, an upside to decisions driven by an increase in the capital gains rate: Wealthier clients may finally be pushed to diversify their holdings. \u201cIf you have 75 percent of your wealth in one stock, then it\u2019s a really appropriate time to think about this,\u201d said Timothy R. Lee, managing director of Monument Wealth Management. If the increased tax rate \u201cis a motivating factor for some people, O.K. Letting go of that control and the pride that goes with it is a really difficult decision.\u201d Selling stock now may also make sense when it is in the form of stock options set to expire early next year. \u201cDo you want to take the risk the price will drop in January?\u201d asked Melissa Labant, director of the tax team at the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. \u201cWhat if we have a fiscal cliff or a change in the markets? If you\u2019re comfortable, do it now.\u201d Some investors may also fear that higher taxes will drive all stocks down. Patrick S. Boyle, investment strategist at Bessemer Trust, said there was no historical link between tax increases and stock market performance. In the most recent three tax increases, he said, \u201cthe market has actually gone up in the six months before and after.\u201d He added: \u201cIt\u2019s not that tax rates aren\u2019t important. They are. It\u2019s just that there are so many other things going on that are more important than tax policy.\u201d MUNICIPAL BONDS Bonds sold to finance state and local government projects are tax-free now and will be tax-free next year. That is no reason to load up on them. Tax-free municipal bonds have always been attractive to people in higher-income tax brackets. Now, advisers fear that individuals just above the $200,000 threshold, people who say they do not feel wealthy but will probably be paying higher taxes on their incomes and investments, will try to offset those increases by moving more of their investments into municipal bonds. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb"},{"url":"http:\/\/query.nytimes.com\/gst\/fullpage.html?res=9E06E1DD133AF930A35751C1A9649D8B63","body":"On paper, Glenn Hadden seemed to be the ideal person to run a large bond trading operation at Morgan Stanley when he was hired in early 2011. Mr. Hadden, a former Goldman partner, was one of the most profitable bond traders on Wall Street. But there was more to his story than just stellar financial results. He had left his previous employer, Goldman Sachs, after questions about his trading activity. And now, Mr. Hadden is under investigation over his trading in Treasury futures while at Goldman, according to a regulatory filing. Specifically, regulators at the CME Group, which runs commodity and futures exchanges, are investigating whether Mr. Hadden's purchases or sales of Treasury futures late in the trading day manipulated closing prices in the market and, in turn, made other of his trades more profitable, according to people briefed on the matter who were not authorized to speak publicly. Mr. Hadden, who is now the head of the global interest rates desk at Morgan Stanley, has been given formal notice by the CME that an inquiry is under way, meaning that it is at an advanced stage. Through a Morgan Stanley spokesman, Mr. Hadden, 42, declined to comment. Goldman Sachs also declined to comment, and Morgan Stanley would say only that Mr. Hadden continues to work at the firm as head of global rates. Mr. Hadden is one of the highest paid professionals at Morgan Stanley and has been known throughout his career for aggressive and profitable risk taking. It is unusual for someone of Mr. Hadden's stature to be the target of a civil complaint like this, and if he is found to have violated exchange rules, he could, in the extreme, face millions in fines and be barred from trading on the CME Group. While Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs learned about the investigation only in recent months, both firms were aware of another controversy involving Mr. Hadden that took place not long after the CME trading now under scrutiny. After receiving complaints involving Mr. Hadden from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Goldman Sachs took the extraordinary step of putting him on paid leave in 2009, according to several people briefed on the matter. Goldman is one of 21 firms designated to trade United States government securities with the New York Fed. Traders at the Fed, according to people briefed on the matter, suspected that Goldman was trying to improperly profit from one of the federal government's bond-buying programs, which are aimed at stimulating economic growth. A spokesman for the New York Fed declined to comment. While neither Goldman nor Mr. Hadden was accused by regulators of wrongdoing in that case, Mr. Hadden's leave from Goldman dragged on for months, in part because senior managers were divided on whether he should return to work, and whether he should have managerial responsibilities if he did return, according to people involved in the discussions. In November 2010, Goldman told its employees that Mr. Hadden was leaving the firm. Morgan Stanley snapped him up soon afterward. Several senior executives there were aware of the New York Fed's complaints when Mr. Hadden was hired, but they were satisfied that he had not done anything wrong, according to people involved in the decision to hire him. \"Wall Street is always looking for a proven moneymaker and has been known to look the other way on things in pursuit of that,\" said Michael Driscoll, a former senior trader at the Wall Street firm Bear Stearns who now teaches at Adelphi University. Mr. Hadden joined Goldman in 1999, just months before the firm went public, and rose to become one of the bank's top traders. In 2008 he was made a partner, a title typically reserved for executives known inside Goldman as \"commercial killers\" - people who make an outsize financial contribution to the firm. Current and former colleagues said Mr. Hadden, who has been known to drink copious amounts of Gatorade at work, was almost \"machinelike\" when he traded. \"He gets this look in his eye,\" one former colleague said. \"It is scary.\" His trading made him very wealthy. His exact compensation is not known but rival rates traders and head hunters estimate that in his best years he made more than $10 million. Mr. Hadden was just the sort of swing-for-the-fences trader Morgan Stanley needed in late 2010, when it was working to rehabilitate its fixed income, or bond, department. That unit, where Mr. Hadden now works, was badly bruised during the financial crisis. Since then, its efforts to rebuild have been slowed by ratings cuts and new regulations that require it and its rivals to hold more capital against riskier operations. These rules are forcing Morgan to either scale back or get out of certain business lines altogether. Trading interest rates, which fall under the bond department, however, is less capital intensive, so in recent years, Morgan Stanley has made a big push into this corner of Wall Street. Enter Mr. Hadden. He has continued to deliver profits to Morgan Stanley, but his time there has not been without incident. In 2011, Mr. Hadden's division was burned by a bad wager on United States inflation expectations, resulting in a loss of tens of millions of dollars, according to people briefed on the trade. Since then, Morgan executives have increased their supervision of Mr. Hadden's activities, according to several people briefed on the matter. A lot is riding on Mr. Hadden at Morgan, however. Not only does he run the firm's powerful rates desk, but many of his bosses - including Colm Kelleher, co-president of institutional securities, and Kenneth M. deRegt, global head of fixed income sales and trading - had a role in hiring him. Morgan Stanley reported the investigation to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street's self-regulator, on Nov. 19, according to a person briefed on the matter. Mr. Hadden got his start in finance in Canada. He was raised in Ontario and attended the University of Western Ontario, where he played football. He worked on Bay Street, which is Toronto's financial district, and eventually landed a job there with Goldman. He also worked for Goldman in London and New York. He has not forgotten his Canadian roots. He is a big supporter of the Toronto Argonauts football team, and he held a charity-driven party in Toronto connected to the recent centennial Grey Cup. This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. PHOTO: Glenn Hadden, a powerful trader in the Treasury market. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GOLDMAN SACHS) (B9)"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/03\/business\/media\/partnership-offers-support-for-public-media-ventures.html","body":"Can the nascent entrepreneurial ideas bouncing around Silicon Valley help reinvent public media? Matter Ventures, a start-up accelerator that will provide four months of financial and logistical support for budding media entrepreneurs, will be unveiled Monday by its partners: KQED, a public television and radio station operator; the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation; and the Public Radio Exchange, known as PRX. KQED, based in San Francisco, and the Knight Foundation are each investing $1.25 million in the initial $2.5 million fund and will have an equity stake in any projects that become viable businesses. PRX, based in Cambridge, Mass., is contributing strategic and management support. The project was announced a year ago as a PRX endeavor to be financed by Knight, before KQED became an investor. While the partners would love to find the next Google, KQED, which just had two years of record-setting revenue, does not expect to get rich from the venture, John Boland, KQED\u2019s president, said in a telephone interview. Instead, Mr. Boland said, he is looking for ideas, whether new ways to distribute and share content, raise money or allow KQED\u2019s audience to \u201cengage more deeply with the content and with others.\u201d The goal is to help KQED reinvent itself in an era where its television ratings have been steadily declining and its radio audience is flat, he said. Broadcast audiences have stagnated even as KQED\u2019s online and mobile audiences have boomed. Demand for its increased offering of local and regional news has been strong as commercial newspapers and television stations have cut back. Being in the Silicon Valley area, KQED should be \u201ctapping into the innovation ecosystem\u201d outside its doors, Mr. Boland said. He said the accelerator was \u201cspecifically designed to attract creative people, entrepreneurs, who have ideas that relate to what we\u2019re calling \u2018media for good.\u2019\u00a0\u201d Mark Perry, a KQED board member who is a general partner in the venture capital firm NEA, called the accelerator \u201ca tremendous opportunity.\u201d \u201cAs this new media world evolves we\u2019re going to need more innovation around \u2014 not the content development, because that we know how to do \u2014 but how these productions can be distributed in the most effective way across these multiple platforms,\u201d Mr. Perry said by telephone. \u201cIt\u2019s as much to stimulate the innovative side of our entire organization as it is to come up with any particular technique, particular technology or particular insight that may come out,\u201d he said. But entrepreneurs are likely to be attracted to the model because KQED is a potential customer for any project that does work, he said. Michael Maness, Knight Foundation\u2019s vice president for journalism and media innovation, in a telephone interview said the accelerator also has the potential to speed the learning process for entrepreneurs in the news business. The foundation will also be able to publicly share insights gained from the projects, unlike those generated by private equity accelerators, he added. The accelerator will be led by Corey Ford, a former producer for the PBS program \u201cFrontline.\u201d Mr. Ford most recently built Runway, an accelerator for the Google chairman Eric E. Schmidt\u2019s early stage venture capital firm, Innovation Endeavors. Matter Ventures will finance four rounds of five teams each over two years. Each of the 20 teams selected will get $50,000, mentoring from the KQED staff, and educational workshops, as well as work space in the Matter Ventures\u2019 headquarters in the South Park section of San Francisco, just blocks from KQED. \u201cA big part of this is about the culture and the community that you create,\u201d Mr. Ford said. Each round will end with a day of presentations to potential investors. Applications for the first class, which will begin work in late February, are being accepted through Jan. 6 at www.matter.vc."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/03\/world\/middleeast\/amid-euphoria-over-un-vote-palestinians-still-face-familiar-challenges.html","body":"RAMALLAH, West Bank \u2014 \u201cNow we have become a state!\u201d Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority, announced Sunday to a crowd of thousands in the courtyard of his headquarters in this Palestinian city.Flags and balloons, a marching band, and a huge poster on the outside wall of the compound proclaiming \u201cYou are now in the State of Palestine\u201d added a festive touch as Mr. Abbas returned home triumphant days after the United Nations General Assembly voted to enhance the standing of the Palestinians in the face of heavy Israeli and American opposition. But an airplane flying high above the compound served as a reminder that the Palestinians have no airport, and they depend on Israeli ports for access to the high seas for shipping. The traffic was as clogged as usual around the Israeli-controlled Qalandia checkpoint, which largely seals off Ramallah from Jerusalem, the eastern part of which has now been widely endorsed as the future Palestinian capital. At least in the short term, with Israeli elections scheduled for January, things are likely to get tougher for the Palestinians before they get better. In Jerusalem on Sunday, the Israeli government unanimously rejected the General Assembly\u2019s decision to upgrade the status of Palestine to a nonmember observer state of the United Nations. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu described the Palestinian move as \u201ca gross violation of the agreements that have been signed with the State of Israel.\u201d In its latest response, Israel said it would not transfer tax revenues it collected on behalf of the Palestinian Authority last month, instead using the money, about $100 million, to pay off about half the debt run up by the authority to the Israel Electric Corporation. The Palestinian Authority has already been suffering through a financial crisis, often unable to pay the salaries of its employees on time. Palestinian officials said that Arab countries had promised to donate funds and make up for any losses caused by punitive Israeli actions, though it was a shortfall in donor money, largely from Arab nations, that caused the financial crisis in the first place. Israel\u2019s financial sanctions followed a government decision to build 3,000 previously planned housing units in contested areas of Jerusalem and in parts of the West Bank that Israel intends to keep under any future arrangement with the Palestinians. The Palestinians have long refused to return to the negotiating table unless Israel halts the construction of settlements. The government has also decided to continue planning and zoning work for the development of a particularly contentious area of East Jerusalem known as E1, a project long condemned by Washington because it would harm the prospects for a contiguous Palestinian state, though privately, Israeli and Palestinian officials said that this last decision could be easily reversed. Mr. Abbas, for his part, was expected to hold meetings with the members of his leadership to discuss how to begin to translate the Palestinians\u2019 new status into practical steps. \u201cWe are celebrating our dignity,\u201d said Xavier Abu Eid, a Palestinian spokesman. \u201cOur small nation withstood a lot of pressure for something that is our right.\u201d But the way forward may be fraught with legal obstacles as the Palestinians try to balance their diplomatic victory with the demands of their previous, more concrete achievements. Israel signed its agreements with the Palestine Liberation Organization, which resulted in the creation of an interim self-rule body, the Palestinian Authority. Asked whether the Palestinian Authority would remain the Palestinian Authority in name, Mr. Abu Eid said: \u201cThat requires a decision of the leadership. I think it will not be changed in a day.\u201d Palestinian officials have insisted that they will not give up the option of seeking to join the International Criminal Court and pursuing claims against Israel, and some Palestinians now expect their leaders to take legal action against the Israelis\u2019 settlement building. Letters of application for membership in various United Nations bodies and international agencies have been signed \u201cThe State of Palestine.\u201d But the Palestinians may not rush to change the name on the front of their passports to Palestine. Even Mr. Abbas is dependent on Israel\u2019s good graces to be allowed to travel through checkpoints and across borders. Many Palestinians were hoping that Mr. Abbas would now seek genuine reconciliation with his rivals in Hamas, the Islamic militant group that controls Gaza. \u201cUnity is the most important step,\u201d said Malik Barghouti, an employee of the authority\u2019s Finance Ministry in Ramallah. \u201cWe are one people.\u201d But if there is no tangible change on the ground, some Palestinians warned, the celebrations could eventually be eclipsed by frustration. \u201cMost people here think we now have lots of rights,\u201d said Mahmoud Mansour, 22, a student of electrical engineering from Jenin in the northern West Bank, who attended the welcome rally. \u201cWhen they realize that nothing has changed, they will be angry.\u201d Khaled Abu Aker contributed reporting."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/03\/world\/europe\/at-elite-french-university-one-hurdle-after-another.html","body":"It may turn out to be a good vintage for French wine, but 2012 has been a terrible year for the Institut d\u2019\u00c9tudes Politiques de Paris, the elite institute for political studies known as Sciences Po, which last week had its interim director removed by the French higher education minister, Genevi\u00e8ve Fioraso, who installed another candidate in his place.In April, the school\u2019s longtime director, Richard Descoings, was found dead in a New York hotel room. Officials ruled in May that he died of natural causes. Under Mr. Descoings\u2019s leadership the school instituted a controversial affirmative action program to recruit students from disadvantaged backgrounds, opened six satellite campuses and turned a feeder school for the French civil service into an international powerhouse that drew 40 percent of its students from outside France. Even before Mr. Descoings\u2019s death, the Cour des Comptes, the national audit office, had announced in October 2011 that it would investigate the university\u2019s accounts from 2005 to 2010. The Ministry of Higher Education and Research wanted the search for a new director to be delayed until the audit office could announce its findings, but the faculty pressed ahead with its search and on Oct. 30 nominated Herv\u00e9 Cr\u00e8s, a deputy to Mr. Descoings who had been acting director, to succeed him. Even though some details had been leaked to the French news media, when the national audit office formally published its findings on Nov. 22 the results were damning: Sciences Po was faulted for its \u201cweak internal and external controls,\u201d the \u201cabusive use of credit cards\u201d by staff members, \u201ctoxic loans\u201d for faculty housing and the practice of paying some professors more than others even though they had fewer teaching hours. According to French news reports, the investigation said that Mr. Descoings, whose gross annual pay was \u20ac537, 000, or about $700,000, was paid too much and in a manner that was \u201cnot transparent.\u201d By comparison, President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande of France is paid \u20ac179,000; his predecessor, Nicolas Sarkozy, received \u20ac255,600. Last week Ms. Fioraso announced that Jean Gaeremynck, the head of the finance section of the Conseil d\u2019\u00c9tat, or Council of State, would serve as the interim director of Sciences Po. The school, which receives just over half its financing from the French government, has a unique structure that divides responsibility between the Institut and the Fondation Nationale des Sciences Politiques, a private, nonprofit foundation that manages the school and presides over research. Traditionally, the same person has led both units, but Francis V\u00e9rillaud, vice president of the school, said that Mr. Gaeremynck would only head the institute. \u201cHerv\u00e9 Cr\u00e8s had been elected by both boards after a search procedure,\u201d Mr. V\u00e9rillaud said by telephone. \u201cNow that process has been interrupted.\u201d Mr. V\u00e9rillaud pointed out that while the audit office\u2019s report identified serious \u201cdysfunctions\u201d in the way the school was managed, no members of the administration had been singled out by name. \u201cSciences Po is a public university. When you use public money there has to be regulation and accountability,\u201d Mr. V\u00e9rillaud said. \u201cWe took this report very seriously. Sciences Po will make the corrections necessary.\u201d The school has already issued a 75-page response to the report promising corrective action. Some of the furor, however, appears to stem from Mr. Descoings\u2019s effort to transform the institution. French professors are civil servants, whose salaries and working hours are strictly controlled. It was difficult for Mr. Descoings to recruit the faculty he wanted without offering the kind of arrangements, on pay and teaching load, that were criticized by the auditors. \u201cDescoings was a visionary,\u201d Mr. V\u00e9rillaud said. \u201cIn a globalized world you have to adapt to survive, and sometimes institutions find it painful to change.\u201d"}][{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/02\/opinion\/sunday\/gov-cuomo-and-campaign-finance-reform.html","body":"Here\u2019s one way Gov. Andrew Cuomo can match the acclaim he achieved by getting same-sex marriage approved in New York State: persuade the State Legislature to make New York\u2019s system of electing legislators the fairest and most transparent in the country. Such a system should include a public financing mechanism modeled on New York City\u2019s successful efforts to involve small donors with matching contributions. It would set sensible limits on individual and corporate contributions. It would close loopholes. It would be transparent and strictly enforced. By setting a national standard for public financing, New York State could go from laggard to leader. The way campaign funds are raised in this state now is scandalous. The restrictions are weak and the enforcement virtually nonexistent. A special interest donor can give any amount \u2014 millions of dollars even \u2014 to a political party by labeling it for \u201chousekeeping\u201d use. State legislators, especially the leaders of committees, too often get their biggest checks from those who do business with their committees. And they can use their campaign treasuries for almost anything, including country club memberships and personal legal fees \u2014 even veterinarian bills for the office cat. In favoring big contributors, the current system pushes small donors out of the political process. The simplest way to change the system is to emulate New York City. For almost a quarter of a century, the city has succeeded in matching small donations with public funds, now providing $6 for every $1. The matches stop at $175. The city also exercises rigorous oversight and imposes strict rules, including bans on corporate donations, limits on donations from people with business before the city and debate requirements for citywide candidates. Candidates who abuse the system are subject to fines and other penalties. By encouraging small donations and more political participation from ordinary citizens, the city makes it possible for more candidates to run for office. A recent study by the Campaign Finance Institute found that about 7 percent of contributors to state campaigns gave under $250, compared with 38 percent of city contributors to participating candidates. The city\u2019s Campaign Finance Board also determined that a majority of those contributing to candidates in the city\u2019s 2009 elections were first-time contributors, more than 80 percent of whom gave less than $175. Powerful business coalitions are signing on to the idea of replicating the city\u2019s system on a statewide basis, using focus groups, preparing advertising campaigns and planning individual pitches to lawmakers. One of these is Protect Our Democracy, led by Sean Eldridge, a venture capitalist and political activist. Traditional public interest organizations like the Brennan Center for Justice and Common Cause are also gearing up for a full-fledged campaign on this issue beginning next year. Mr. Cuomo and his administration are working right now on his State of the State address to present his goals for 2013. This year\u2019s big proposal turned out to be something of a bust: a hastily concocted plan to create a casino in Queens, an idea that he dropped several months later. He also proposed a commendable campaign-finance reform plan that went nowhere. This time, he should use his considerable political influence to make it happen, changing the money culture in Albany and providing a model for the rest of the country."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/02\/realestate\/mortgages-financing-for-small-co-op-units.html","body":"OBTAINING financing for a co-op can be challenging for any buyer these days, but those looking in small co-op buildings, especially with fewer than five units, are finding it even more daunting. As a result, some buildings have even converted to condominiums to get deals done.\u201cThere are a lot of banks out there that will not make the loan in a building with fewer than 10 apartments,\u201d said Aaron Shmulewitz, a partner of the law firm Belkin Burden Wenig & Goldman. \u201cThe market for co-op apartments in very small buildings is pretty much reduced to individuals paying cash or individuals who have strong relationships with their personal bankers.\u201d The hesitancy to lend, said Mr. Shmulewitz, who heads his firm\u2019s co-op and condo practice, started in the early 1990s market crash, when banks forced to foreclose on co-op loans found they could not resell apartments in small buildings as easily as in larger ones. Today a borrower interested in a co-op loan in a small building would very likely be required to put down as much as 40 percent, versus a 20 percent down payment in a larger co-op building, he said, adding that such a borrower\u2019s interest rates would probably be half a percentage point higher. Small co-op buildings have a smaller pool of lenders to choose from, said June Richardson, a mortgage broker with the GuardHill Financial Corporation, because Fannie Mae typically does not buy the loans in the secondary market. Andrew Wilson, a Fannie Mae spokesman, said the agency would buy co-op loans only if there were at least five units in the building, to ensure \u201cappropriate levels of risk tolerance,\u201d although he added that a lender could request an exception. Sometimes lenders will provide what is known as a portfolio loan, which they hold and service, but only if the borrower already has a \u201csubstantial\u201d banking relationship with the financial institution and has at least $150,000 in reserves, Ms. Richardson said. Wells Fargo regularly finances co-ops with fewer than 10 units, but if there are fewer than 5, additional requirements kick in. JPMorgan Chase finances co-op buildings with 5 or more units; Bank of America regularly finances under 10 units but will not go below 5, according to company representatives. Additionally, many lenders have a concentration limit. It varies among institutions, but to cover the risk in case of default, most banks will typically finance only 25 percent of a building, said Adam Dahill, a loan officer with WCS Lending, a privately held mortgage bank. To illustrate the difficulty of getting a co-op loan in a very small building, Mr. Dahill recounted the story of one frustrated client, a married university professor with tenure, who had significant equity in his Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, two-bedroom. The client, who lived in a four-unit co-op building, bought another apartment downstairs with cash borrowed from a relative. He wanted to combine the units and obtain one loan for both. The client could not find a bank that would provide the mortgage, so he tried \u2014 unsuccessfully \u2014 to refinance his first unit. To solve the problem, all three other units in the co-op agreed that the building should become a condo.\u00a0After a long legal process, Mr. Dahill arranged financing on his client\u2019s combined four-bedroom 2,000-square-foot unit. Another option for co-op borrowers is the National Cooperative Bank, which offers portfolio loans. Borrowers must put down 20 percent on a purchase up to $417,000 and 25 percent on one of $417,000 to $1.5 million, said Robbie Gendels, the loan officer for the New York market. A credit score of at least 680 and 12 months\u2019 reserves are also a must. Ms. Gendels says the bank now only offers adjustable-rate loans. Borrowers fortunate enough to get fixed-rate loans years ago are sticking to them, \u201ceven if the rates are higher\u201d at around 6 percent and 7 percent, she said."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/02\/realestate\/big-deal-downtown-the-crystal-ball-clouds-up.html","body":"DOWNTOWN New York was among the areas hit hardest by Hurricane Sandy. And, this being New York, the gallows humor quickly followed.The trendy neighborhoods of TriBeCa, Battery Park City and the West Village, with their many celebrity residents and Wall Street climbers, suddenly were known collectively as \u201cSoPo\u201d \u2014 South of Power. \u201cOr as we refer to it now, Little North Korea,\u201d quipped the comedian Jon Stewart. In a memorable post-Sandy \u201cDaily Show,\u201d two of his faux correspondents roamed the blackened streets of downtown, one with a machete strapped to his back, the other selling free-range rats from a stick. \u201cI knew I should have moved to the Upper West Side,\u201d said Jessica Williams, the rat-seller. \u201cBut no, Lower East Side is where it\u2019s at, Lower East Side is cool, they have Indian food.\u201d Up in Times Square, John Oliver, another correspondent, ate an ice cream and brownie while balancing two shopping bags. \u201cIt\u2019s a total hellscape up here, Jon,\u201d he joked. Beyond the satire, the hurricane left searing images. New York magazine ran a chilling cover showing a blacked-out Lower Manhattan. And the terms \u201cZone A\u201d and \u201cZone B\u201d have taken on new significance in the new city lexicon. They have entered the real estate conversation, emerging as potential buyer signposts that moving to those areas could subject them to blackouts and severe flooding. For a lot of people on the sidelines, eager to get into New York real estate, bad news that depresses prices a bit can be good news, the buying opportunity they\u2019ve been waiting for. But the question now facing downtown New York is whether the hurricane stigma is just a short-term phenomenon, or will persist into the long term as well. Insurance costs are sure to rise, and lenders could become tougher on the area, mortgage brokers say, putting a damper on one of the great real estate stories in the country over the past decade. It wouldn\u2019t be the first time that the area had faced adversity, of course. Lower Manhattan recovered strongly after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, as the city gave developers incentives to create new residential housing. And home prices downtown have recovered more quickly since the Lehman Brothers collapse than prices in the rest of the city. Average sale prices in Battery Park City and the financial district have risen by 11.7 percent, compared with 0.7 percent for Manhattan as a whole, according to Miller Samuel, a real estate appraisal company. Still, some real estate brokers are worried that the momentum downtown will be lost. Some 40 buildings, both residential and commercial, that suffered flood damage are still not letting residents and tenants move back in. \u201cThat is enough to rattle even the most pro-Lower Manhattan advocate,\u201d said Jonathan J. Miller, president of Miller Samuel. In the immediate aftermath of the storm, a smattering of deals to buy condos fell through. One couple from China was set to buy a two-bedroom apartment at 15 Broad Street (in Zone B) for their son to attend Pace University. But news reports detailing the loss of electricity and widespread flooding changed their minds, even though the Broad Street building did not flood. \u201cThey thought that all of New York had succumbed to devastation,\u201d said Ryan Serhant, a broker at Nest Seekers International who represented the seller. \u201cThey just weren\u2019t willing to put their son there.\u201d The morning of the storm, an American couple from out of town toured a triplex brick mansion at 60 Collister Street owned by Stuart Parr, a movie producer. \u201cThey loved it,\u201d said Fredrik Eklund, a broker at Douglas Elliman who represents Mr. Parr. Mr. Eklund gave the couple a ride back to the Plaza Hotel, where they were staying. Some 12 hours later, as the rain intensified, the power downtown went out, and the flooding began. The couple, who were spending time with friends near Central Park, suddenly announced that they preferred to live on the Upper East Side. \u201cWhen they actually explain that because of the storm they are not interested in this area anymore, you feel helpless,\u201d Mr. Eklund said. \u201cAs a broker you try to argue that this particular mansion was not flooded in the storm of the century, so that is proof that they have nothing to worry about, but still...\u201d Mr. Eklund and the couple\u2019s broker tried to persuade them to come down to a blackened downtown to see the 9,300-square-foot mansion one more time, but they never came. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:Correction: December 9, 2012The Big Deal column last Sunday, about the effects of Hurricane Sandy on downtown Manhattan, misstated the status of 88 Greenwich Street. It is a condo, not rental, building."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/02\/opinion\/sunday\/a-health-insurance-detective-story.html","body":"I\u2019VE had a long career as a business journalist, beginning at Forbes and including eight years as the editor of Money, a personal finance magazine. But I\u2019ve never faced a more confounding reporting challenge than the one I\u2019m engaged in now: What will I pay next year for the pill that controls my blood cancer?After making more than 70 phone calls to 16 organizations over the past few weeks, I\u2019m still not totally sure what I will owe for my Revlimid, a derivative of thalidomide that is keeping my multiple myeloma in check. The drug is extremely expensive \u2014 about $11,000 retail for a four-week supply, $132,000 a year, $524 a pill. Time Warner, my former employer, has covered me for years under its Supplementary Medicare Program, a plan for retirees that included a special Writers Guild benefit capping my out-of-pocket prescription costs at $1,000 a year. That out-of-pocket limit is scheduled to expire on Jan. 1. So what will my Revlimid cost me next year? The answers I got ranged from $20 a month to $17,000 a year. One of the first people I phoned said that no matter what I heard, I wouldn\u2019t know the cost until I filed a claim in January. Seventy phone calls later, that may still be the most reliable thing anyone has told me. Like around 47 million other Medicare beneficiaries, I have until this Friday, Dec. 7, when open enrollment ends, to choose my 2013 Medicare coverage, either through traditional Medicare or a private insurer, as well as my drug coverage \u2014 or I will risk all sorts of complications and potential late penalties. But if a seasoned personal-finance journalist can\u2019t get a straight answer to a simple question, what chance do most people have of picking the right health insurance option? A study published in the journal Health Affairs in October estimated that a mere 5.2 percent of Medicare Part D beneficiaries chose the cheapest coverage that met their needs. All in all, consumers appear to be wasting roughly $11 billion a year on their Part D coverage, partly, I think, because they don\u2019t get reliable answers to straightforward questions. Here\u2019s a snapshot of my surreal experience: NOV. 7 A packet from Time Warner informs me that the company\u2019s new 2013 Retiree Health Care Plan has \u201cno out-of-pocket limit on your expenses.\u201d But Erin, the person who answers at the company\u2019s Benefits Service Center, tells me that the new plan will have \u201cno practical effect\u201d on me. What about the $1,000-a-year cap on drug costs? Is that really being eliminated? \u201cYes,\u201d she says, \u201cthere\u2019s no limit on out-of-pocket expenses in 2013.\u201d I tell her I think that could have a major effect on me. Next I talk to David at CVS\/Caremark, Time Warner\u2019s new drug insurance provider. He thinks my out-of-pocket cost for Revlimid next year will be $6,900. He says, \u201cI know I\u2019m scaring you.\u201d I call back Erin at Time Warner. She mentions something about $10,000 and says she\u2019ll get an estimate for me in two business days. NOV. 8 I phone Medicare. Jay says that if I switch to Medicare\u2019s Part D prescription coverage, with a new provider, Revlimid\u2019s cost will drive me into Medicare\u2019s \u201ccatastrophic coverage.\u201d I\u2019d pay $2,819 the first month, and 5 percent of the cost of the drug thereafter \u2014 $563 a month or maybe $561. Anyway, roughly $9,000 for the year. Jay says AARP\u2019s Part D plan may be a good option. NOV. 9 Erin at Time Warner tells me that the company\u2019s policy bundles United Healthcare medical coverage with CVS\/Caremark\u2019s drug coverage. I can\u2019t accept the medical plan and cherry-pick prescription coverage elsewhere. It\u2019s take it or leave it. Then she puts CVS\u2019s Michele on the line to get me a Revlimid quote. Michele says Time Warner hasn\u2019t transferred my insurance information. She can\u2019t give me a quote without it. Erin says she will not call me with an update. I\u2019ll have to call her. My oncologist\u2019s assistant steers me to Celgene, Revlimid\u2019s manufacturer. Jennifer in \u201cpatient support\u201d says premium assistance grants can cut the cost of Revlimid to $20 or $30 a month. She says, \u201cYou\u2019re going to be O.K.\u201d If my income is low enough to qualify for assistance. NOV. 12 I try CVS again. Christine says my insurance records still have not been transferred, but she thinks my Revlimid might cost $17,000 a year. Adriana at Medicare warns me that AARP and other Part D providers will require \u201cprior authorization\u201d to cover my Revlimid, so it\u2019s probably best to stick with Time Warner no matter what the cost. But Brooke at AARP insists that I don\u2019t need prior authorization for my Revlimid, and so does her supervisor Brian \u2014 until he spots a footnote. Then he assures me that it will be easy to get prior authorization. All I need is a doctor\u2019s note. My out-of-pocket cost for 2013: roughly $7,000. NOV. 13 Linda at CVS says her company still doesn\u2019t have my file, but from what she can see about Time Warner\u2019s insurance plans my cost will be $60 a month \u2014 $720 for the year. CVS assigns my case to Rebecca. She says she\u2019s \u201csure all will be fine.\u201d Well, \u201cpretty sure.\u201d She\u2019s excited. She\u2019s been with the company only a few months. This will be her first quote. NOV. 14 Giddens at Time Warner puts in an \u201cemergency update request\u201d to get my files transferred to CVS. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb Frank Lalli is an editorial consultant on retirement issues and a former senior executive editor at Time Warner\u2019s Time Inc."},{"url":"http:\/\/query.nytimes.com\/gst\/fullpage.html?res=9C0DE5D8123AF931A35751C1A9649D8B63","body":"CORRECTION APPENDED DOWNTOWN New York was among the areas hit hardest by Hurricane Sandy. And, this being New York, the gallows humor quickly followed. The trendy neighborhoods of TriBeCa, Battery Park City and the West Village, with their many celebrity residents and Wall Street climbers, suddenly were known collectively as \u201cSoPo\u201d \u2014 South of Power. \u201cOr as we refer to it now, Little North Korea,\u201d quipped the comedian Jon Stewart. In a memorable post-Sandy \u201cDaily Show,\u201d two of his faux correspondents roamed the blackened streets of downtown, one with a machete strapped to his back, the other selling free-range rats from a stick. \u201cI knew I should have moved to the Upper West Side,\u201d said Jessica Williams, the rat-seller. \u201cBut no, Lower East Side is where it\u2019s at, Lower East Side is cool, they have Indian food.\u201d Up in Times Square, John Oliver, another correspondent, ate an ice cream and brownie while balancing two shopping bags. \u201cIt\u2019s a total hellscape up here, Jon,\u201d he joked. Beyond the satire, the hurricane left searing images. New York magazine ran a chilling cover showing a blacked-out Lower Manhattan. And the terms \u201cZone A\u201d and \u201cZone B\u201d have taken on new significance in the new city lexicon. They have entered the real estate conversation, emerging as potential buyer signposts that moving to those areas could subject them to blackouts and severe flooding. For a lot of people on the sidelines, eager to get into New York real estate, bad news that depresses prices a bit can be good news, the buying opportunity they\u2019ve been waiting for. But the question now facing downtown New York is whether the hurricane stigma is just a short-term phenomenon, or will persist into the long term as well. Insurance costs are sure to rise, and lenders could become tougher on the area, mortgage brokers say, putting a damper on one of the great real estate stories in the country over the past decade. It wouldn\u2019t be the first time that the area had faced adversity, of course. Lower Manhattan recovered strongly after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, as the city gave developers incentives to create new residential housing. And home prices downtown have recovered more quickly since the Lehman Brothers collapse than prices in the rest of the city. Average sale prices in Battery Park City and the financial district have risen by 11.7 percent, compared with 0.7 percent for Manhattan as a whole, according to Miller Samuel, a real estate appraisal company. Still, some real estate brokers are worried that the momentum downtown will be lost. Some 40 buildings, both residential and commercial, that suffered flood damage are still not letting residents and tenants move back in. \u201cThat is enough to rattle even the most pro-Lower Manhattan advocate,\u201d said Jonathan J. Miller, president of Miller Samuel. In the immediate aftermath of the storm, a smattering of deals to buy condos fell through. One couple from China was set to buy a two-bedroom apartment at 15 Broad Street (in Zone B) for their son to attend Pace University. But news reports detailing the loss of electricity and widespread flooding changed their minds, even though the Broad Street building did not flood. \u201cThey thought that all of New York had succumbed to devastation,\u201d said Ryan Serhant, a broker at Nest Seekers International who represented the seller. \u201cThey just weren\u2019t willing to put their son there.\u201d The morning of the storm, an American couple from out of town toured a triplex brick mansion at 60 Collister Street owned by Stuart Parr, a movie producer. \u201cThey loved it,\u201d said Fredrik Eklund, a broker at Douglas Elliman who represents Mr. Parr. Mr. Eklund gave the couple a ride back to the Plaza Hotel, where they were staying. Some 12 hours later, as the rain intensified, the power downtown went out, and the flooding began. The couple, who were spending time with friends near Central Park, suddenly announced that they preferred to live on the Upper East Side. \u201cWhen they actually explain that because of the storm they are not interested in this area anymore, you feel helpless,\u201d Mr. Eklund said. \u201cAs a broker you try to argue that this particular mansion was not flooded in the storm of the century, so that is proof that they have nothing to worry about, but still...\u201d Mr. Eklund and the couple\u2019s broker tried to persuade them to come down to a blackened downtown to see the 9,300-square-foot mansion one more time, but they never came. Mr. Parr has lowered his asking price for the property, which has a private pool and parking spot, to $15.8 million, and more recently, to $14.995 million. Before the storm it was $17.5 million. Other real estate brokers, and some mortgage brokers, say they are still on the bubble with deals that were in the works before the storm. \u201cThis has given them some pause,\u201d said Melissa L. Cohn, a broker at the Manhattan Mortgage Company."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/02\/us\/some-see-logistical-issues-and-elitism-in-toll-lanes.html","body":"For Texas drivers, the distinction between free roads and toll roads is starting to blur.Across the state, multiple projects are under way to add toll lanes to free roads, or to build highways with free and toll lanes alongside one another. While toll lanes, sometimes called express lanes, have been used for years in Houston, the state\u2019s largest city, the concept is poised to spread to the next five largest cities in Texas. The trend is part of a larger boom in toll projects sweeping the state as public officials find themselves with little tax revenue to spend on new roads. In Texas\u2019 fast-growing urban areas, the addition of toll lanes can bridge the gap in financing for major highway projects. The lanes are also more palatable to the public than full-fledged toll roads, according to Peter Samuel, the editor of Tollroadsnews, a Web site based in Maryland. \u201cIt gives people a choice,\u201d Mr. Samuel said. \u201cThey don\u2019t have to pay a toll to travel in the corridor, which makes it politically easier to get acceptance even though people will label them \u2018Lexus lanes.\u2019\u00a0\u201d That term is used by critics like Terri Hall, the founder of the anti-toll-road group Texans Uniting for Reform and Freedom. She contended that most people would view toll lanes as a luxury rather than a benefit to communities. \u201cThe few that can afford those lanes will get congestion relief, and the rest of us will still be paying the gas tax and sitting in traffic,\u201d Ms. Hall said. \u201cWe\u2019re restricting people\u2019s ability to travel based on status.\u201d Dallas, Austin, Fort Worth and El Paso have toll lane projects in development, and San Antonio is considering adding toll lanes to two highway projects, according to officials in those cities. Many of the projects are being designed to allow for what is known as dynamic tolling, in which a toll rises or falls with traffic to ensure that vehicles using the lanes can always travel above a certain speed. \u201cWe have the goal of keeping traffic moving at 50 miles per hour,\u201d said Tony Hartzel, a Texas Department of Transportation spokesman, who is familiar with projects in the Dallas-Fort Worth region. \u201cThe tolls on managed lanes will change every five or six minutes.\u201d In each metropolitan region, transportation officials are using their own interpretation of the toll lane concept. Some are developing the projects as high-occupancy toll, or HOT, lanes, which encourage car-pooling by allowing vehicles with multiple occupants to use them free or at a discount. In Houston, HOT lanes that opened this year on Interstate 45 and United States Highway 59 were originally high-occupancy-vehicle, or H.O.V., lanes that saw light traffic outside of rush hour, said Vince Obregon, associate vice president of capital projects with the Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County. Car-poolers can access the lanes free, and their vehicles are the only ones allowed to use the lanes during the morning and evening peak periods. \u201cIt was our challenge to get more capacity out of the infrastructure we already had,\u201d Mr. Obregon said. The initial response has been positive, though the lanes are not producing enough revenue to cover their costs, Mr. Obregon said. Two more Houston highways will have HOT lanes next year. Separate toll lanes on the Katy Freeway are operated by the Harris County Toll Road Authority, and allow only H.O.V. riders free access during peak hours. \u201cI think when you look at the nature of these projects, the vast majority of them are conversions of H.O.V. lanes to HOT lanes,\u201d said Ginger Goodin, a researcher with the Texas A&M Transportation Institute, which studies toll lane projects. That is not the case in Austin, where toll lanes are planned for the busy MoPac Expressway. The new lanes will not treat car-poolers differently because such policies are difficult to enforce and could hurt the project\u2019s financial security, said Steve Pustelnyk, a spokesman for the Central Texas Regional Mobility Authority. \u201cThe more people that can use the lanes for free, then the less reliable they become financially and you need greater public subsidies to make the project work,\u201d Mr. Pustelnyk said. He added that the MoPac toll lanes would allow transit buses, registered van pools, emergency vehicles and military vehicles to ride free. The Houston HOT lanes have two entrance ramps. Single-occupant vehicles take a ramp where an electronic reader charges the account linked to each car\u2019s toll tag. Vehicles with multiple passengers are directed to the H.O.V. ramp, where a toll worker counts the passengers in a car as it passes and notifies a police officer if any vehicles are trying to skirt the system. Planners in North Texas hope to follow Houston\u2019s lead and incentivize car-poolers to use the toll lanes being built as part of three highway projects, though they expect to enforce their policies differently. They are developing a system similar to one used in Atlanta, where drivers, either online or by phone, update their toll tag accounts in advance when they expect to have enough passengers in the vehicle to qualify for discounted tolls. It remains to be seen which vehicles will be eligible for the discount, says Michael Morris, the transportation director for the North Central Texas Council of Governments. Initially, it is likely that all vehicles with two or more passengers will qualify for the discounts at peak periods. Eventually, Mr. Morris said, the discount would have to be limited to vehicles with three or more occupants. The motivation behind the switch is both financial and practical, Mr. Morris said. To finance large projects like the LBJ Express in Dallas and the North Tarrant Express near Fort Worth, the expected revenue from toll lanes is critical. Both projects would have had to be scaled back or delayed if all of the cars with two passengers that are expected to use the lanes had to be subsidized into the foreseeable future, he said. Also, encouraging vehicles with two passengers to use the toll lanes would have little effect on reducing congestion or improving air quality. \u201cFifty percent of our two-plus users don\u2019t actually reduce their miles traveled,\u201d Mr. Morris said. \u201cYou were going in the same car anyway.\u201d abatheja@texastribune.org"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/02\/fashion\/weddings\/danielle-dineen-andrew-earls-weddings.html","body":"Danielle Anne Dineen and Andrew Wyatt Earls were married Saturday at St. Jean Baptiste Roman Catholic Church in New York. The Rev. Anthony Schueller, the church\u2019s pastor, performed the ceremony. Mrs. Earls, 35, is a compliance associate at Apollo Global Management, an investment firm in New York. She graduated from Boston College. She is the daughter of Peggy Anne Heinkele Dineen and Daniel Blake Dineen of Westhampton Beach, N.Y. The bride\u2019s father, who is retired, was the director of compliance at Integrated Resources, a financial services company in New York. Her mother, also retired, was the director of the Bureau of City Marshals for the New York City Department of Investigation. She conducted audits and otherwise helped oversee the activities of city marshals, who collect judgments and carry out evictions. From 1996 to 1998, she was the president of the Junior League of the City of New York. Mr. Earls, 38, is a managing director in the leveraged-finance department of Morgan Stanley in New York, where he creates and sells debt securities for corporations. He graduated cum laude from Harvard. He is a son of Elizabeth Sinclair of Washington and C. Gregory Earls of Ayer, Mass. The groom\u2019s mother is a Realtor in the Georgetown office of Long & Foster. His father was the chief executive of U.S. Technologies, an Internet venture company that collapsed about a decade ago."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/02\/world\/americas\/enrique-pena-nieto-takes-office-as-mexicos-president.html","body":"MEXICO CITY \u2014 With protests and little pomp, Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto on Saturday began his six-year term as president of Mexico, promising big spending and sweeping changes to bring peace and prosperity to a country troubled by drug violence and uneven economic growth.\u201cThis is Mexico\u2019s moment,\u201d Mr. Pe\u00f1a Nieto declared in his inaugural address before a gathering of domestic and foreign leaders at the national palace, including Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., seated in the front row, while demonstrators kept far from the scene vandalized buildings and clashed with riot police officers outside. Mr. Pe\u00f1a Nieto, 46, a lawyer who had been governor of Mexico State, has pledged to work closely with the United States to strengthen security and economic ties, which he believes would bring Mexico closer to a middle-class society and reduce the kind of drug war violence that has left tens of thousands dead in the past several years. He made no promise to dismantle the drug-trafficking organizations, a focus of his immediate predecessor, Felipe Calder\u00f3n. Instead, he unveiled a sweeping 13-point agenda focused more on domestic goals for crime prevention that would revise the penal code to attack impunity, give more attention to victims of violence, lessen poverty and hunger, improve schooling and even build new passenger train lines and expand Internet access. \u201cWe are a nation that is growing at two speeds; some live behind and in poverty and others live in the developing part,\u201d he said, alluding to new manufacturing plants and investments but also grinding poverty that affects half the population. \u201cThere are a great number of Mexicans who live every day worried about the lack of employment and opportunities,\u201d he added. \u201cThose conditions also damage the image of Mexico abroad, and that is the Mexico that must be transformed.\u201d Still, his administration will be watched to see if it is propelling Mexico forward or backward. Mr. Pe\u00f1a Nieto ushers in a new era for the Institutional Revolutionary Party, known as the PRI, which ruled Mexico for more than 70 years before the more conservative National Action Party toppled it in 2000 and again in 2006. Mr. Pe\u00f1a Nieto and his associates say they represent a new, chastened party bent on promoting efficiency and economic change \u2014 there were no public inaugural celebrations \u2014 and promising to fight the kind of corruption long associated with it. \u201cIt\u2019s a very common misconception to think that the PRI\u2019s return to power means the return of something that is already in history,\u201d Luis Videgaray, who led the president\u2019s transition team and is now finance minister, said in a recent interview. \u201cThe PRI of today is like any other party: a party that competes in a democracy, that accepts results and understands that only through good government would it be able to compete again in elections,\u201d he said. But Mr. Pe\u00f1a Nieto hardly begins with a mandate; he won 38 percent of the vote and faces a divided legislature, where his party often blocked significant changes proposed by Mr. Calderon. He recited the oath of office before Congress amid cheers and jeers, mostly from leftist legislators, and left the congressional chamber quickly. Later, outside the national palace, scores of mostly young masked people, shouting anti-PRI slogans, clashed with the police, set fires, threw rocks and vandalized hotels and stores along several blocks. More than 90 were arrested and several were injured, and Mayor Marcelo Ebrard later blamed anarchist groups for the trouble.. When Mr. Pe\u00f1a Nieto announced his cabinet on Friday, it was clear that he had relied largely on PRI stalwarts, including five former governors. But he also placed several foreign-educated technocrats from his inner circle, including Mr. Videgaray, in prominent positions. Andrew Selee, director of the Woodrow Wilson Center\u2019s Mexico Institute in Washington, said Mr. Pe\u00f1a Nieto seemed intent on reaffirming the power of the state, a hallmark of his party, while also hinting at taking on interest groups. He specifically promised an end to entrenched employment in the education system, seen as a jab at the powerful teachers\u2019 union, which has stymied changes. \u201cAfter several years of decentralized government in Mexico, Pe\u00f1a Nieto seems intent on showing that the Mexican state is back and that all of the interest groups in the country will need to respect his authority,\u201d Mr. Selee said. \u201cHow significant these efforts are in reality depends on what he does next, but symbolically Pe\u00f1a Nieto reasserted the power of the presidency after years of what many Mexicans feel has been fragmented and ineffective government.\u201d"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/01\/world\/europe\/chancellors-majority-eludes-angela-merkel-in-greek-vote.html","body":"BERLIN \u2014 By the time German lawmakers convened to vote on a fresh bundle of bailout money for Greece on Friday, it was widely expected that the measure would pass easily \u2014 as it did.But in the numbers game that is parliamentary politics, the important figure was not the 473 votes in favor of the next installment of loans and aid for Greece, totaling \u20ac43.7 billion, or $56.7 billion. The focus instead was on the 23 lawmakers from Chancellor Angela Merkel\u2019s own center-right coalition who voted against the measure, robbing her, for the third consecutive vote on Greece, of the so-called chancellor\u2019s majority, or absolute majority among her government\u2019s own deputies. While not relevant for Friday\u2019s vote, the chancellor\u2019s majority is widely seen as an indicator of the strength of the incumbent\u2019s power base, because most legislation put before the lower house of Parliament requires only a simple majority of those voting. Missing it on three votes in a row on one policy matter, in this case, Greece, is unusual. \u201cThe missed chancellor\u2019s majority is a clear sign that even if one wants to be a good colleague, even her party colleagues do not agree with her government\u2019s policy of pushing these packages through Parliament,\u201d said Manuel Becker, a political scientist at the University of Bonn. With federal elections set for next Sept. 22, Ms. Merkel remains personally popular with voters but faces rising discontent from within her own Christian Democratic Union, or C.D.U. While she does not appear to face any clear threat before next week\u2019s party congress, where she is virtually certain to emerge as the party\u2019s nominee in the election, disgruntled members have become more willing to voice unhappiness at her perceived shortcomings. \u201cThe C.D.U. must convince people, and especially businesses, with strong arguments as to why they deserve their votes,\u201d said Kurt Lauk, a party economic expert. \u201cThe slogan \u2018Peace, Happiness and Merkel\u2019 will not be enough.\u201d The fate of the Free Democratic Party poses the greatest challenge to Ms. Merkel\u2019s current coalition, made up of Free Democrats, Christian Democrats and their sister party in Bavaria, the Christian Social Union. The Free Democrats are now polling dangerously at or below the 5 percent minimum needed to get into Parliament. And they are balking at the idea of more debt relief for Greece, although they apparently acknowledge that Athens will need more help before it can borrow on the open market. \u201cWe need to recognize that no one at any time has promised that in one fell swoop, we will flip a switch and the issue will be resolved,\u201d said Otto Fricke, a Free Democrat deputy. \u201cAnyone who thinks this is the last time that we have voted on this issue is mistaken.\u201d Germany is one of Greece\u2019s largest creditors and all parties understand that Berlin\u2019s support is crucial not only for the success of the package but also the entire euro zone. That leaves the opposition parties with few options other than to criticize Ms. Merkel\u2019s government. The Greens joined the Social Democrats in criticizing Ms. Merke for failing to level with German taxpayers about the true cost of the effort. The current package aims to cut Greek debt, estimated at 175 percent of gross domestic product, down to 124 percent by 2020. For the first time this week, Finance Minister Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble acknowledged that the Greek package would cut into the federal budget: \u20ac730 million this year and \u20ac660 million in 2014. Speaking in favor of the debt package, Mr. Sch\u00e4uble praised the restructuring efforts of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras\u2019s government and warned that the current discussion of writing down Greek debt would sap Athens\u2019 drive to continue with the painful course of reforms required by Germany and the other international lenders. \u201cIf we say that the debt will be forgiven, then the readiness to save in exchange for further help is weakened,\u201d Mr. Sch\u00e4uble told Parliament. \u201cIf we want to help Greece along this difficult path, then we must go forward step by step.\u201d In Greece, government officials welcomed the German vote and expressed hope that it would influence similar votes in other European legislatures. The International Monetary Fund has insisted that fresh money, or even a write-down, will be needed to put Greece on a path to manageable debt by the end of the decade. Ms. Merkel and Mr. Sch\u00e4uble have repeatedly rejected such a measure. The Netherlands is also leery of more debt relief for Athens. In an interview with the S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung on Friday, the Dutch prime minister, Mark Rutte, called for a change in E.U. laws to allow a country to leave the euro. \u201cWe want to make it possible for a euro zone country to be able to quit the euro if it wants,\u201d Mr. Rutte said, insisting that all members must respect the rules governing the currency union. He did not specifically mention Greece. The overall unemployment rate among the 17 E.U. nations using the euro has climbed to 11.7 percent, its highest rate since 1995, according to official figures. While the German economy remains largely immune to the suffering on its borders, the most recent figures show growth slowing and investor confidence dipping. So far Ms. Merkel has been able to quell calls from within her coalition for Greece to leave the euro zone by insisting that the consequences would be far more dire for Germany than giving more assistance. Niki Kitsantonis contributed reporting from Athens. This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:Correction: December 4, 2012An earlier version of this article misstated the overall unemployment rate among the 17 E.U. nations using the euro. It is 11.7 percent, not 11.6 percent."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/01\/business\/global\/german-finance-minister-urges-lawmakers-to-approve-greek-debt-deal.html","body":"BERLIN \u2014 Lawmakers in Germany\u2019s lower house of Parliament easily passed the next round of financial support for Greece on Friday, despite growing doubt among members of Chancellor Angela Merkel\u2019s coalition and opposition parties that the measures will be sufficient to resolve the Greek problem.As expected, a clear majority of 473 out of 584 lawmakers casting ballots voted in favor of the package of measures agreed to by European finance ministers and international lenders last week that will unlock loan installments totaling \u20ac43.7 billion, or $56.7 billion. One hundred lawmakers voted against the measure and 11 abstained. Germany is one of Greece\u2019s largest creditors and support from Berlin is crucial for the success of the program. Yet with a parliamentary election scheduled for Sept. 22, German politicians from all sides have been reluctant to take on extra financial burdens. Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, Germany\u2019s finance minister, defended the latest bailout package and praised the restructuring efforts that have been made by the government of Antonis Samaras, prime minister of Greece. But he warned that the current discussion of writing down Greek debt would sap Athens\u2019s drive to continue with the painful course of reforms that Germany has required in exchange for more financial assistance. \u201cIf we say that the debt will be forgiven, then the readiness to save in exchange for further help is weakened. Consequently, this is the false incentive,\u201d Mr. Sch\u00e4uble said. \u201cIf we want to help Greece along this difficult path, then we must go forward step by step.\u201d The current package aims to cut Greek debt, currently estimated at 175 percent of gross domestic product, down to 124 percent by 2020. Mr. Sch\u00e4uble acknowledged for the first time that the bailout would cut into Germany\u2019s federal budget, but warned that failure to approve it could be disastrous for the nation and the rest of Europe. Already the 17 European Union nations using the common currency are in recession. Unemployment in the bloc has also climbed to 11.7 percent, its highest rate since 1995, according to official European figures released Friday. While the German economy remained largely immune to the suffering on its borders, the most recent official figures show growth slowing and investor confidence dipping. Against this backdrop, Ms. Merkel has been able to quell calls from within own her center-right coalition for Greece to leave the euro zone, by insisting that the consequences of such a step would be far more dire for Germany than providing more financial assistance. Ms. Merkel\u2019s government rests on an alliance of her own conservative Christian Democratic Union with the sister party for the state of Bavaria, the Christian Social Union, and the liberal pro-business Free Democrats. It was not immediately clear if a fully majority of her government had supported the bailout measure. The leading opposition parties, the Social Democrats and the Greens, criticized Ms. Merkel\u2019s government for taking too long to agree to help Greece and for failing to level with German taxpayers about the true cost of the effort, but nevertheless backed the package. \u201cWe will vote for it because we don\u2019t want our reliability as European partners left in any doubt,\u201d Ms. Merkel\u2019s main challenger for the election, Peer Steinbr\u00fcck of the Social Democrats, told German public television ahead of Friday\u2019s vote. \u201cIt has nothing to do with the government.\""}][{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/01\/business\/a-simpler-tax-code-for-stronger-growth-in-the-long-run.html","body":"WASHINGTON \u2014 As lawmakers consider rolling back many of the $1 trillion a year in tax breaks now doled out to businesses and individuals, some are promising that streamlining the tax code will not only raise revenue, but also spur economic growth.But a number of prominent economists cautioned that, while cleaning up the code is a worthy goal, it would do little to stimulate the flagging economy. The kinds of changes being discussed in the heated back-room negotiations between President Obama and the House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio \u2014 raising $800 billion to $1.6 trillion in additional tax revenue, along with significant down-the-road spending cuts \u2014 would most likely depress growth in the short term. Longer term, economists said, streamlining the code might improve the allocation of capital enough to raise growth modestly. The overall economy might be 1 to 2.5 percent bigger than it otherwise would be after five or 10 years, translating into perhaps more than one million jobs. While that growth would certainly be welcome, it falls far short of claims from some tax reform evangelists, who predict that adding certainty and simplicity to the tax code would by itself ignite an economic boom. \u201cThis religious faith that a broader base gives you a better tax system and economy is overly optimistic and simplistic,\u201d said Alan J. Auerbach, the director of the Robert D. Burch Center for Tax Policy and Public Finance at the University of California, Berkeley. \u201cI think the benefits can be overstated.\u201d Economists from across the political spectrum concur that the nation\u2019s complex tax code most likely hampers growth. Tax rates Americans pay are so uneven that they not only raise fairness issues, but also cause distortions in the economy, inducing financial decisions that individuals might not otherwise make, and might not be the most efficient use of capital. Tax rates on different kinds of individual income vary by 20 percentage points. More than $1 trillion a year in breaks \u2014 as varied as a tiny effort to aid domestic makers of toy arrows and the huge exclusions for state and local taxes \u2014 riddle the code. The cumulative effect of those loopholes, preferential rates and special programs distorts how investors invest, economists said. \u201cYou put money in less-productive investments,\u201d said Joel B. Slemrod of the University of Michigan, summarizing the problem. For instance, analysts say generous tax breaks on home mortgage interest encourage Americans to buy bigger and more expensive houses, with little long-term benefits to innovation and economic growth. They also believe generous tax breaks on employer-provided health care spur higher health costs overall. The bulk of economists agree in principle in the sensibility of \u201cbroadening the base\u201d \u2014 or eliminating deductions and exclusions, to make more income taxable and allow for lower rates \u2014 to improve the overall investment climate. Hypothetically, economists said, the growth effects of broad tax reform could be enormous. Huge overhauls, like replacing the income tax with a consumption or value-added tax, could increase economic output in the long run by as much as 9.4 percent. But a consumption tax has few supporters in Washington because many warn that it would be regressive, shifting too large a portion of the tax burden onto lower- and middle-income Americans. Moreover, few politicians think that Congress could agree on passing such a big reform. In the scheme of things, economists said, the kinds of changes on the table in Washington are far too small to make much of a difference, meaning in the long run they might inject a meager-to-modest boost to growth. \u201cNobody\u2019s talking about reforms that big,\u201d said R. Glenn Hubbard, the dean of the Columbia Graduate School of Business and a top Republican economist. \u201cLimiting deductions to raise revenue? That\u2019s not going to raise growth at all. And raising rates would hurt growth.\u201d \u201cI\u2019m not even sure that the academic literature on tax rates and growth maps well onto what people are talking about now.\u201d Several experts cautioned that changes to increase taxes on investment and savings income might hurt long-run growth, even if it improved the progressivity of the code. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/01\/world\/americas\/brazil-registers-slow-economic-growth-in-3rd-quarter-shocking-economists.html","body":"S\u00c3O PAULO, Brazil \u2014 Brazil\u2019s economy registered anemic growth in the third quarter as investment levels remained disappointingly low, according to figures released on Friday. The results cast doubt on policies meant to prevent Brazil from turning into a laggard among Latin America\u2019s economies.Gross domestic product grew just 0.6 percent from the previous quarter, stunning economists who had forecast double that rate. Brazil\u2019s economy is now expected to grow only about 1 percent in 2012, delivering a challenge to President Dilma Rousseff, who has tried to increase growth through an array of huge stimulus projects. Even economists with favorable views of Ms. Rousseff\u2019s policies of assertively directing large government banks and other state-controlled enterprises to promote growth expressed surprise. The figures reflect a sharp departure from 2010, the last year of Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva\u2019s presidency, when Brazil\u2019s economy grew 7.5 percent. Ant\u00f4nio Delfim Netto, an influential former economic policy chief, called the G.D.P. figures \u201ca tragedy\u201d in comments to reporters here on Friday. Under Ms. Rousseff, who has been president since 2011, Brazil is on track to deliver its weakest two-year period of growth since the early 1990s, before a stabilization program that radically restructured the economy. Finance Minister Guido Mantega contends that Brazil is on the cusp of a recovery, forecasting 4 percent growth next year. While growth has declined considerably from the boom years, the slowdown has been blunted by state-supported projects aimed at creating jobs, like a shipbuilding sector conceived to support the oil industry. Brazil\u2019s unemployment rate, 5.3 percent, is still hovering near historical lows. Authorities are also financing broadly popular antipoverty programs. Federal spending surged 9 percent in October compared with October 2011, partly a result of outlays for an moderate-income housing program called Minha Casa Minha Vida (My House My Life). As millions of poor Brazilians are shielded from the slowdown, Ms. Rousseff\u2019s approval ratings remain high. Still, critics are growing more vocal about the need for Brazil to become more energetic in addressing complex structural dilemmas weighing the economy down, including its byzantine bureaucracy and woeful public schools. Ms. Rousseff is moving to address these issues; she changed an oil royalties bill on Friday, shifting 100 percent of future proceeds to an education fund."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/01\/business\/economy\/an-uneven-recovery-in-the-worlds-cities.html","body":"\u201cSo the last shall be first, and the first last.\u201d\u2014 Matthew 20:16 SO it was in the Great Recession, according to a new survey of the world\u2019s 300 largest metropolitan areas. None of the wealthiest areas in the world escaped the downturn, and most of them have yet to fully recover more than four years after the downturn began. But nearly half of the poorest areas never suffered any decline, and most of those that did have recovered. The survey, released by the Metropolitan Policy Program of the Brookings Institution, found that this year the pattern began to change. Growth rates slowed from 2011 in most areas, but the trend was less pronounced in wealthier areas. North America was the only region where more than half of the metropolitan areas grew faster than they had in 2011. \u201cThe global metropolitan economy is fragile and many problems, like the falling euro zone and the slowdown of emerging economies, are here to stay, at least for the immediate future,\u201d said Emilia Istrate, an associate fellow at Brookings. \u201cDespite their challenges, U.S. metro economies are helping to power the global recovery.\u201d The survey looked at two measures of growth \u2014 gross domestic product and jobs \u2014 but did so in slightly different ways. It measured the change in per-capita G.D.P. but looked at total employment without adjusting for population change. Within the United States, only three of the 76 metro areas measured are estimated to have fully recovered in both employment and per capita G.D.P. \u2014 Dallas, Pittsburgh and Knoxville, Tenn. Within the euro zone, nearly all major metro areas in Germany and Austria have recovered, but none outside those countries have done so. Nor have any of the major British areas. Similarly, while more than three-quarters of the 48 Chinese areas have fully recovered, if they declined at all, none of the 12 Japanese areas have done so. While growth slowed this year in China, it still dominated the list of the fastest-growing regions. The 300 metropolitan areas in the survey are the largest in the world in terms of G.D.P. and together account for nearly one-half of global output, Brookings said. But they include just 19 percent of the world population. The 2012 figures were estimated by Brookings based on data from Oxford Economics, Moody\u2019s Analytics and the United States Census Bureau. The accompanying charts break down the results by both wealth and region. Brookings found that 40 of the 300 regions did not suffer even one annual decline in employment or per capita G.D.P. from 2008 through 2012. Most of them were in the bottom fifth of areas, as measured by per capita G.D.P. in 2007, before the recession began. None were in the areas that made up the wealthiest half of the world. The charts show the proportion of areas that experienced no decline, as well as the proportion that have fully recovered in both economic growth and employment and those that recovered by one measure but not the other. While most fell in 2008 and later made at least partial recoveries, there are a few, notably in Australia, that escaped pain early on but declined this year as Chinese growth \u2014 and demand for some imports \u2014 slowed. This is the third year that Brookings has done the study, although it includes more areas than the previous studies did. One sad fact remained constant. Athens was the worst performer in 2012, as it had been in the previous years. The good news, if you can call it that, is that things are getting worse more slowly. Brookings estimates employment in the Athens area declined 6.9 percent in 2012, while per capita G.D.P. fell 5.1 percent. Both declines are greater than in any other area this year, but they are smaller than the ones Athens recorded in 2011. Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com\/economix."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/01\/arts\/01iht-melikian01.html","body":"PARIS \u2014 A chunk of the stock of antiquities from the Ancient World accumulated by Joseph Uzan, who opened his Galerie Samarcande in 1979, came up at Drouot last week. In a two-day auction organized by Ench\u00e8res Rive Gauche, 149 lots ranging from the third millennium B.C. Iraq to the British Isles in Roman times were sold, and a great many more remained unwanted.When a professional driven by his passion for objects as much as by the need to pay bills at the end of the month decides to turn a page after so many years and embarks on a large-scale weeding-out operation, this tells us that there is trouble afoot in the art collecting world and that dealers are revising their policy. Mr. Uzan\u2019s own profile is typical of an era that is ending. His professional trajectory started in the days when supplies were overabundant. The dealer, born in 1944, stumbled into his profession, not as a result of a carefully thought out career choice, but because he felt irresistibly attracted to objects. After studying medicine in his native Tunisia for two years, the young man lost interest and left for France, where he got the French equivalent of a bachelor of arts degree in economical science from Strasbourg University. But, instead of looking for a job in finance or commerce, Mr. Uzan became a frequent visitor of Drouot, the large auction house in Paris, and he spent much time nosing around the then innumerable shops selling \u201cantiquit\u00e9s\u201d across the city. Mr. Uzan is a compulsive buyer and as he pointed out in an interview, in self-incriminating mockery, \u201cyou learn when you do the buying.\u201d And learn he did. Stopping by over the years at Galerie Samarcande, I caught sight of some fine works of art, Egyptian, Greek, Roman and others. There also were hosts of small pieces that pundits would nowadays characterize as unimportant. As Mr. Uzan puts it, he belongs to \u201ca generation of dealers that liked objects for their sake, not just the money. They sold these to clients who felt likewise. All are now gone.\u201d The sale conducted last week certainly supports the dealer\u2019s statement. Delightful and inexpensive pieces that would have induced connoisseurs to compete against each other often went unnoticed and those that sold made laughably modest prices. A bronze oil lamp in the form of a shrew that holds in its pointy muzzle a leaf serving as a wick holder, and that curls back its tail to form a ring handle, was given a first- to third-century A.D. time bracket. With its alert round eyes, the furry little fellow oozes a charm that would have struck many as irresistible three decades ago. Amusing details, like the tip of the tail wrought as a hinge for the cover of a small opening in the back, now missing, would have worked in its favor. Instead, it was the loss of the lid that apparently registered with buyers. A single bid came over the Internet and the auctioneer, Muriel Berlinghi-Domingo, let it go at \u20ac687, or about $890, below the lower end of the estimate, which even at \u20ac800, plus the 25 percent sale charge, seemed timid. Although Egyptian art is in high demand, a bronze finial designed like a temple pillar with a reclining dog resting on the capital failed to arouse much enthusiasm. Assigned to the Ptolemaic dynasty, the object is engraved on the shaft with an inscription that names Anubis, the deity symbolized by a dog, and makes it clear that the bronze was ritually dedicated: \u201cAnubis, who gives life to Tadi ... the daughter of ...\u201d This is a small rarity. Yet it only took \u20ac3,000 to secure the bronze, which missed the lower end of the estimate by \u20ac500. \u201cBuyers only go after spectacular works,\u201d Mr. Uzan remarked after the sale. \u201cThey want flashy, large objects.\u201d The contrast offered by the wooden figure of Anubis as a dog in repose bears out this gloomy observation. The white gesso coating is peeling off and the catalog entry bluntly mentions the existence of \u201crestored areas.\u201d But the carving, which dates from the second- or first-century B.C., is 40 centimeters, or nearly 16 inches, long. Bidders happily ignored the candid caveat spelled out in the catalog by the expert, Jean Roudillon, and at \u20ac3,400, the damaged but big Anubis dog nearly matched the upper end of the estimate. In this context, a few enchanting, if \u201cunimportant,\u201d small objects from the Ancient World could be bought for a song. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/01\/opinion\/whats-missing-in-the-latest-greek-bailout.html","body":"The new Greek bailout deal agreed to Tuesday by euro zone finance ministers and the International Monetary Fund is a clear improvement over earlier deals. It recognizes that Greece\u2019s current and projected ratios of debt to output are unsustainable. It prescribes useful steps to lower that ratio, including lower interest rates on loans from Greece\u2019s European partners, longer bond maturities and a plan for Athens to buy back and retire some of its heavily discounted bonds.Regrettably, it excludes more effective tools, like actual debt write-downs, which Germany\u2019s chancellor, Angela Merkel, finds politically unpalatable. And in deference to Ms. Merkel, the deal postpones some of the promised relief until after German elections next September. But its biggest mistake is conditioning relief on maintaining fiscal austerity. Greece\u2019s only hope for long-term solvency is through aggressive measures to revive economic growth. These could include public investment in modernizing ports and infrastructure, tax cuts to encourage export industries, and better public education. Done right, such measures would more than pay for themselves by improving Greece\u2019s competitiveness in global and European markets. The bailout deal should keep Greece financially solvent for the next few months, but the price could prove too much for Greece\u2019s economy and society to bear. Beginning in 2016, Greece will be committed to extracting a budgetary surplus (excluding interest payments) from a shrinking economy. And it is expected to reduce debt-to-output ratios while output continues to fall. Greece\u2019s output is now almost 25 percent lower than it was in 2008. This year alone it will be down 6.4 percent. Next year, factoring in the new package of tax increases and spending cuts approved by the Greek Parliament last month at European insistence, it is expected to fall even further. That means less business and less personal income to pay taxes. Unemployment is now over 25 percent. Health benefits for the long-term unemployed have already been cut. So have pensions for the elderly and wages for those still working. Greece\u2019s prime minister, Antonis Samaras, hailed this week\u2019s debt agreement as the transformation of \u201cendless austerity\u201d into a program that \u201cwill lead to growth.\u201d Unfortunately, it promises nothing of the kind, and Mr. Samaras\u2019s fragile coalition shows signs of fracturing under the economic strain. It might not even be able to stagger on until the German election next year. If it falls, Greece could be headed for default and exit from the euro. That catastrophe can still be avoided \u2014 but only if Ms. Merkel decides to put the survival of Greece and the future of the European Union ahead of her own electoral calculations."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/12\/01\/world\/europe\/01iht-currents01.html","body":"ISTANBUL \u2014 \u201cThere are liquids that are not mixable \u2014 it\u2019s like that.\u201d But Bedri Baykam \u2014 a prominent Turkish painter, activist, politician and author \u2014 was not talking chemistry. He was speaking of the hardening self-segregation between Westernized, secular Turks like him and the conservative Muslims who now run Turkey, but whom he\u2019d be unlikely ever to dine with.\u201cWe don\u2019t eat the same way,\u201d he said, picking at eggs and olives in his vast gallery-cum-studio space in the Pera neighborhood. \u201cWe eat at tables with ladies and men sitting together \u2014 and enjoying and drinking wine and making jokes and listening to either Turkish music or Beethoven or Rolling Stones or Beatles or Edith Piaf. They sit separately with men and women. They don\u2019t drink alcohol.\u201d Or, he said, snack on the same biscuits: \u201cThey eat the biscuits of Ulker; we eat the biscuits of Eti. We don\u2019t even buy those biscuits, and they don\u2019t buy our biscuits, so that the money doesn\u2019t go to each other.\u201d The two camps also have their own favored chambers of commerce (Tusiad versus Musiad), their own watering holes (bars versus teahouses) \u2014 and, this year, even their own Republic Day celebrations, which erupted in chaos when the police reportedly unleashed water cannons and tear gas on the secularist one. Istanbul now ranks with the world\u2019s most modish cities, a river megalopolis of shimmering vistas and skyscraping minarets and winding, cobbled lanes where nostalgic music groans and the bars offer group discounts on 25 shots of vodka to roving bands of saucily dressed people. The surrounding country is praised overseas for its dynamic economy, its increasing pluck in world affairs, and its ability to combine democracy, strong women and Islam. But the country, and this city, is meanwhile the site of a bitter, fratricidal battle for its soul \u2014 an extraordinary culture war over what it means to be a Turk. The battle \u2014 waged in national politics but also in life\u2019s daily minutiae \u2014 has become, literally, black and white. In one corner are \u201cwhite Turks,\u201d who revere the republic\u2019s founder, Kemal Ataturk, and his mission to remake Turkey in Europe\u2019s image \u2014 secular, republican, purged of its Ottoman legacies. In the other corner are \u201cblack Turks,\u201d conservative Muslims who, in a mostly Muslim nation, were marginalized for decades, excluded from the Turkish elite \u2014 until, in 2003, one of their own became a populist prime minister and began what many black Turks consider a healthy rebalancing and many white Turks, the politics of resentment or, worse, revenge. As Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey presses ahead with plans to rewrite the Constitution, transform the presidency into a more-than-figurehead role and then perhaps seek it, the white Turks wonder whether the sun is setting on their world. They live in what is still perhaps the most open society in the Muslim world; they hear that society touted as a model for the region; and, more and more, with basis at times and at times out of paranoia, they sense that this openness \u2014 their way of life \u2014 is disappearing. They read and hear of public schools being turned into imam seminaries; of music festivals being purged of alcohol; of journalists and generals who dared to question the government\u2019s ambitions languishing for months and years in prison. They note that alcohol is facing rising taxes, and in some places becoming more elusive \u2014 but they\u2019re unsure how systematic it is. Or whether Mr. Erdogan\u2019s power lust is more dangerous than his piety \u2014 whether he is more Putin than Ahmadinejad. And they fear that Turkey may be too important to Western leaders\u2019 ambitions for the region to let the facts of what\u2019s happening interfere with the compelling moderate-Muslim-country narrative those leaders promote. Sometimes, Bennu Gerede \u2014 photographer, feminist, self-styled wild child \u2014 convinces herself that it can\u2019t be that bad. After all, she did have children with multiple men, and gets along just fine. She did create that image of a Muslim woman, head veiled but pubic hair exposed, being shot by her husband, and no one said a thing. Others aren\u2019t so calm. For Gozde Kucuk, a 20-something, Princeton-educated secularist who works in finance and whose family owns the Turkish chocolate maker Elit, the country\u2019s Islamic revivalism is a \u201ccounterrevolution\u201d against Ataturk and the very meaning of Turkishness. \u201cIt\u2019s like a president coming in the United States and saying, \u2018There is no American Dream,\u201d\u2019 she said, sitting in her family\u2019s apartment overlooking the Bosporus. She described her situation as that of the proverbial frog in the slowly warming pot. Iran\u2019s theocracy is the boiling point, and she is confident it won\u2019t go that far. But how far will it go? Enough to rid the restaurants of wine? Enough to complicate wearing short skirts on the street? Enough, she wonders warily, to make it unwise to be an artist here, or gay, or a parent who wants her children taught, not preached to, in school? 1 2 Next Page \u00bb"},{"url":"http:\/\/query.nytimes.com\/gst\/fullpage.html?res=9D05E0DE163AF932A35751C1A9649D8B63","body":"Most of us looking for a low-risk savings account would jump at an annual interest rate of even 1 percent. So, what would you think of earning 10 percent? That's right: 10 percent. There is a catch, of course. Getting this rate involves risking your life in a foreign country. It's only available to members of the United States military serving in designated combat zones, including Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan and the Persian Gulf. The rate is available through the Department of Defense Savings Deposit Program. The program, which dates to the Vietnam era, was created to \"provide members of the uniformed services serving in a designated combat zones the opportunity to build their financial savings,\" according to a Web site maintained by Defense Finance and Accounting Service, which provides payment services to the Defense Department. The program caught our eye here at Bucks when it was mentioned in a publication from USAA, which provides banking and financial services for members of the military and their families. USAA says the program \"can provide a welcome savings boost, thanks to a generous 10 percent interest rate earned on combat pay.\" Joseph Montanaro, a financial planner with USAA in San Antonio, Tex., says the program can be a boon for service members, allowing them to earn about 10 times what their money would earn in a typical domestic savings account at current rates. There are a host of conditions, however. To qualify, military members must be deployed in a combat zone for either 30 consecutive days, or at least one day in each of three consecutive months. A maximum of $10,000 can be deposited in the account, typically by automatic paycheck withdrawal (or \"allotment,\" in military parlance). The program is restricted to pay earned while in the qualifying zone. Soldiers can't deposit more than their net monthly pay. Nor can service members simply take $10,000 they had managed to save in a low-rate certificate of deposit and put it in the military program as a lump sum to earn the higher rate, said Steve Burghardt, a spokesman for Defense Finance and Accounting Service. The funds are paid out when the combat tour is finished, he said. Money can be left in the account indefinitely -- but interest accrues for just 90 days after soldiers return from combat duty. In general, the funds can't be withdrawn until soldiers are no longer eligible for the program. If an emergency comes up, military members have to petition their commanding officer to obtain early access to the money. And, while combat pay isn't taxable, interest earned in the savings program is. Roughly 19,500 service members currently participate in the program, Mr. Burghardt said. I plugged some numbers into an online savings calculator. If a soldier deposited $300 a month into the savings program for a year at 10 percent, he'd earn about $170 in interest. A 1 percent rate -- the most generous currently available on low-risk savings accounts back home -- would earn roughly $17. (The numbers may vary slightly depending on the assumptions built into the calculator used.) So the program appears to be a benefit, for those who are eligible -- and who don't need access to the money right away. As for those of us who aren't eligible, maybe we should just be thankful that we're not. Have you ever used the Defense Department's savings program? What was your experience? This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/11\/30\/business\/auditors-clash-in-hp-deal-for-autonomy.html","body":"The battle over Hewlett-Packard\u2019s claim that it was bamboozled when it bought Autonomy, a British software company, has been long on angry rhetoric and short on details about the accounting that was supposedly wrong and led to an $8.8 billion write-down.But the eternal question asked whenever a fraud surfaces \u2014 \u201cWhere were the auditors?\u201d \u2014 does have an answer in this case. They were everywhere. They were consulting. They were advising, according to one account, on strategies for \u201coptimizing\u201d revenue. They were investigating whether books were cooked, and they were signing off on audits approving the books that are now alleged to have been cooked. They were offering advice on executive pay. There are four major accounting firms, and each has some involvement. Herewith a brief summary of the Autonomy dispute: Hewlett-Packard, a computer maker that in recent years has gone from one stumble to another, bought Autonomy last year. The British company\u2019s accounting had long been the subject of harsh criticism from some short-sellers, but H.P. evidently did not care. The $11 billion deal closed in October 2011. Last week, H.P. said Autonomy had been cooking its books in a variety of ways. Mike Lynch, who founded Autonomy and was fired by H.P. this year, says the company\u2019s books were fine. If the company has lost value, he says, it is because of H.P.\u2019s mismanagement. Autonomy was audited by the British arm of Deloitte. H.P., which is audited by Ernst & Young, hired KPMG to perform due diligence in connection with the acquisition \u2014 due diligence that presumably found no big problems with the books. That covered three of the four big firms, so it should be no surprise that the final one, PricewaterhouseCoopers, was brought in to conduct a forensic investigation after an unnamed whistle-blower told H.P. that the books were not kosher. H.P. says the PWC investigation found \u201cserious accounting improprieties, misrepresentation and disclosure failures.\u201d That would seem to make the Big Four tally two for Autonomy and two for H.P., or at least it would when Ernst approves H.P.\u2019s annual report including the write-down. But KPMG wants it known that it \u201cwas not engaged by H.P. to perform any audit work on this matter. The firm\u2019s only role was to provide a limited set of non-audit-related services.\u201d KPMG won\u2019t say what those services were, but states, \u201cWe can say with confidence that we acted responsibly and with integrity.\u2019 Deloitte did much more for Autonomy than audit its books, perhaps taking advantage of British rules, which are more relaxed about potential conflicts of interest than are American regulations enacted a decade ago in the Sarbanes-Oxley law. In 2010, states the company\u2019s annual report, 44 percent of the money paid to Deloitte by Autonomy was for nonaudit services. Some of the money went for \u201cadvice in relation to remuneration,\u201d which presumably means consultations on how much executives should be paid. The consulting arms of the Big Four also have relationships that can be complicated. At an auditing conference this week at New York University, Francine McKenna of Forbes.com noted that Deloitte was officially a platinum-level \u201cstrategic alliance technology implementation partner\u201d of H.P. and said she had learned of \u201cat least two large client engagements where Autonomy and Deloitte Consulting worked together before the acquisition.\u201d A Deloitte spokeswoman did not comment on that report. To an outsider, making sense of this brouhaha is not easy. In a normal accounting scandal, if there is such a thing, the company restates its earnings and details how revenue was inflated or costs hidden. That has not happened here, and it may never happen. There is not even an accusation of how much Autonomy inflated its profits, but if there were, it would be a very small fraction of the $8.8 billion write-off that H.P. took. Autonomy never reported earning $1 billion in a year. That $8.8 billion represents a write-off of much of the good will that H.P. booked when it made the deal, based on the conclusion that Autonomy was not worth nearly as much as it had paid. It says more than $5 billion of that relates to the accounting irregularities, with the rest reflecting H.P.\u2019s low stock price and \u201cheadwinds against anticipated synergies and marketplace performance,\u201d whatever that might mean. Some of the accounting accusations relate to how Autonomy booked expenses. The H.P. version is that the British company made sales of hardware \u2014 personal computers it bought and resold \u2014 look like sales of valuable software. It hid some costs as marketing expenses when they should have been reported as costs of goods sold. All that, if true, would inflate operating profit margins and growth rates for the most important part of the business. But it would not change net earnings. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com\/economix."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/11\/30\/us\/30iht-letter30.html","body":"WASHINGTON \u2014 When Branko Milanovic, a World Bank economist, published \u201cThe Haves and the Have-Nots,\u201d a study of global income inequality, last year, one of his most striking observations was the extent to which the subject was taboo in the United States.As Mr. Milanovic explained, \u201cI was once told by the head of a prestigious think tank in Washington, D.C., that the think tank\u2019s board was very unlikely to fund any work that had income or wealth inequality in its title. Yes, they would finance anything to do with poverty alleviation, but inequality was an altogether different matter.\u201d \u201cWhy?\u201d Mr. Milanovic asked. \u201cBecause \u2018my\u2019 concern with the poverty of some people actually projects me in a very nice, warm glow: I am ready to use my money to help them. Charity is a good thing; a lot of egos are boosted by it and many ethical points earned even when only tiny amounts are given to the poor. But inequality is different: Every mention of it raises in fact the issue of the appropriateness or legitimacy of my income.\u201d I recalled Mr. Milanovic\u2019s remarks this week when I found myself on a panel at the Brookings Institution, one of those Washington research groups, discussing income inequality, including the research collected in a new book published by Brookings titled \u201cInequality in America.\u201d In reply, Kemal Dervis, the vice president of Brookings, who co-wrote the book and led the panel, joked that if he turns up on the job market next month we will know he overstepped the mark. It was a characteristically polished line \u2014 Mr. Dervis is a former Turkish cabinet minister \u2014 but the truth is that the Brookings event was a sign of the recent sea change in the U.S. public discourse about income inequality. As recently as this summer, it still seemed like Americans were allergic to any explicit discussion of income inequality. That was the reasoning of Republicans and of many previously nonpartisan wealthy businessmen who responded to President Barack Obama\u2019s call for higher taxes on millionaires and billionaires with accusations of class war. But at the polls in November, something surprising, at least for the Romney strategists, happened. A very muted, democratic version of class war was fought, and the lower classes won. As Mitt Romney put it in a conference call with his donors after the vote, a coalition of less well-off Americans re-elected Mr. Obama because he promised to use government to improve their lot. Even the patriarch of American capitalists, Warren E. Buffett, has decided it is O.K. to talk about income inequality. In an op-ed in The New York Times and the International Herald Tribune this week, Mr. Buffett pointed out that the wealth of the 400 richest Americans has increased more than fivefold over the past 20 years. As Mr. Buffett put it, \u201cmy gang has been leaving the middle class in the dust.\u201d The Brookings panel confirmed that assessment and offered three important takeaways about the causes and consequences of rising income inequality. One was that government matters. Like most students of the subject, the assembled economists agreed that rising inequality was driven partly by economic forces like the technology revolution and globalization. But the state can choose to mute the impact of the invisible hand. Paradoxically, in much of the Western world, and particularly in the United States, even as the power of these economic shifts has become more profound, government efforts to mitigate them have become weaker. As Mr. Buffett pointed out, the effective tax rate paid by the 400 top earners in 1992 was 26.4 percent. By 2009, it had fallen to 19.9 percent \u2014 even as the pretax gap between the plutocrats and everyone else had widened. A second theme of the Brookings discussion helps to explain one reason that has happened \u2014 the economy has gone global, but nation-states have not. Higher taxes on the rich may be a logical response to rising income inequality, but actually levying those taxes is getting harder in an age of global capital flows. Mr. Buffett said it was \u201csickening\u201d that rich people and companies use the Cayman Islands to lower their tax bills, but moral outrage is a weak weapon against international tax arbitrage. If you are still not convinced that all this matters, consider the third, and most striking, possibility raised at the Brookings panel. Set aside any moral or political concerns you may have about rising income inequality \u2014 worries about poverty, justice, undue political influence or even social mobility. According to Mr. Dervis, and the research collected in \u201cInequality in America,\u201d a growing number of economists suspect that once inequality passes a certain point it may jeopardize economic stability and economic growth. As the book argues, \u201crebalancing of the distribution of income may play a role in unlocking the U.S. economy\u2019s growth potential in a sustainable way.\u201d Now that is a truly radical thought, and it brings us back to Mr. Milanovic\u2019s earlier view that income inequality was a forbidden subject in the United States. Worrying about the poor is one thing. To contend that equality is necessary for growth is an altogether different and more radical idea. Three decades later, trickle-down economics has met its antithesis. We are set for one of the great battles of ideas of our time. Chrystia Freeland is Editor, Thomson Reuters Digital."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/11\/30\/opinion\/global\/niall-ferguson-turning-points.html","body":"WE yearn for turning points. Just as economists have predicted nine out of the last five recessions, so journalists have surely reported nine out of the last five revolutions. Every election is hailed as epoch-making. Every president is expected to have a new foreign policy \u201cdoctrine.\u201d A minor redesign of a cellular phone is hailed by the devotees of the Apple cult as a \u201cparadigm shift.\u201dThe point about paradigm shifts, as Thomas Kuhn pointed out in \u201cThe Structure of Scientific Revolutions,\u201d is that they don\u2019t happen every other year. They are slow, because even when a new insight is right \u2014 dazzlingly right in hindsight \u2014 vested interests and other forms of inertia resist its adoption. The same is true for big political discontinuities. They just don\u2019t happen that often. In 2012 there were a whole bunch of elections, not only in the United States but also in France, Mexico, the Netherlands, Russia, South Korea, Taiwan and Venezuela. In China a new standing committee of the Politburo was named, after a selection process so opaque as to be papal. In countries like Egypt, Libya and Yemen, there was no mistaking the revolutionary character of the change as the misnamed Arab Spring continued its evolution into an Islamist Winter. But in other places the political changes hardly qualified as turning points. In France a jaded Left mounted one last feeble rally against economic reality. In Mexico the old regime, in the form of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, returned to power. Contrary to expectations, anti-European populists lost in Holland and the genial Mark Rutte was re-elected. In Russia, Vladimir Putin abandoned his pretense of being prime minister and returned to his real job as president. Turning points? Turn over and go back to sleep. The great English historian A.J.P. Taylor said of the year 1848 that \u201cGerman history reached its turning point and failed to turn.\u201d This verdict could in fact be applied to most countries in most years. History is like an oil tanker. It does not turn on a dime. Mankind sails forward through time in seas that are sometimes calm, sometimes stormy. At times it seems almost becalmed, at other times it can do 12 knots. Depending on who captains the ship, it veers sometimes to port, sometimes to starboard. When it changes direction, the turn is generally slow. The things that change suddenly on an oil tanker are the emotions of the crew. Nine hundred and ninety-nine days out of a thousand, they obey their orders and do their work. But very occasionally there is a drama. The men mutiny and the captain is clapped in irons. Or pirates board the ship. Such events are what historians love to study and call \u201crevolutions.\u201d Still, the ship plows onward. In other words, do not expect 1989 to happen every year \u2014 and don\u2019t exaggerate how big a turning point even 1989 was. Nearly a quarter of a century ago, Francis Fukuyama hailed \u201can unabashed victory of economic and political liberalism\u2026 the Triumph of the West.\u201d It seemed so true. Who could forget the thrill of that night \u2014 Nov. 9, 1989 \u2014 when the Cold War ended not with Armageddon but with a street party? Yet, as I write, the People\u2019s Republic of China is poised to overtake the United States in terms of gross domestic product (adjusted for differences in purchasing power) in 2017. If you invested in the West in 1989 you fared much worse than if you had invested in the Rest. Emerging stock markets have risen by a factor of five since 1989; the U.S. market, fourfold; Europe, less than threefold. One attractively simple way of thinking about the world is to say that wealth, and with it power, are shifting from the West to the Rest. In that sense, the real turning point was not 1989 but 1979, the year Deng Xiaoping visited the United States and China\u2019s economic reforms began in earnest. From that point, the \u201cgreat divergence\u201d of the West from the Rest came to an end, and the world embarked on a \u201cgreat reconvergence.\u201d But the reality is more complicated than suggested by phrases like \u201cthe post-American world.\u201d There are six slow-acting drivers of historical change in our time, as in most of recorded history. A common error is to focus on only one. They are: 1. Technological innovation; 2. The spread of ideas and institutions; 3. The tendency of even good political systems to degenerate; 4. Demographics; 5. Supplies of essential commodities; 6. Climate change. 1 2 3 Next Page \u00bb"}][{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/11\/30\/opinion\/global\/gordon-brown-global-economic-problems-need-global-solutions.html","body":"WHEN I was asked a few years ago what the financial crisis taught me, I replied, \u201cIt\u2019s the global economy, stupid.\u201d Well, what I actually said was it taught me that \u201cglobal problems need global solutions.\u201dI would now go further: My 13 years in government have taught me that the pre-eminent international issue is whether we can develop a level of global cooperation that matches the global dimension of our problems. We need little proof that our world is more interdependent than ever. As Britain\u2019s prime minister in 2008, I saw how reverberations from a banking collapse anywhere can affect stability everywhere. I found that leaders, who previously had talked only intermittently, were in constant telephone contact. As chairman of the G-20 at the height of the crisis, I found myself working the phones on a near 24-hour cycle, moving through time zones from Asia to America. Since then, we\u2019ve seen how a nuclear disaster in Japan can send shock waves across every land; how economic difficulties in Greece can hurt confidence across the globe; how protectionism in just a few countries can disrupt the whole of world trade. We\u2019ve also seen evidence that international cooperation on economic issues is not working well. The year 2009 should have brought an era of enhanced cooperation. Instead, that cooperation hit a high-water mark, then receded. Global coordination is still regarded by too many countries as an optional extra, a sideshow compared with domestic issues. From my own experience I can see that there are changes we can make, institutional reforms we can embrace, and specific policies that we can adopt that would improve cooperation and make for a far healthier, more prosperous world. Let me focus on the five great economic and social challenges of our time \u2014 all global in nature, all requiring coordinated action, all matters on which the world community has been called upon to act but has failed to do so effectively: financial stability, climate change, global growth, open trade and the Millennium Development Goals. The failure to coordinate global finance Given the global financial crisis \u2014 which cost $4 trillion in lost output and an estimated 28 million jobs, as well as surging debt and deficits (much of the cost borne by countries, businesses and individuals who did not directly cause the crisis) \u2014 the case for global financial coordination is indisputable. As Mark Carney, the chairman of the Financial Stability Board set up in 2009 to monitor and make recommendations about the global financial system, has said, \u201cGiven the reality of global finance, it is not enough to have our own house in order \u2014 unless we seal ourselves off from the world, and if we were to do that we will end up much poorer. An open, resilient global financial system will be central to the transformation of the global economy. In order to achieve that, financial sector reform is a must.\u201d Yet while much has been promised, Europe, America, Switzerland and other financial centers are today regrettably agreeing to their own separate and distinctive financial regimes. The world is at risk of a race to the bottom in financial standards, with the good undercut by the bad and the bad by the worst. There has yet to be agreement on the oversight and regulation of shadow banking, the terms of securitization, how money-market funds are managed, and how we manage the links between the regulated banking sector and shadow banks. The failure to coordinate global action on climate change No matter what action a nation seeks to take on climate change, its policy outcomes are influenced by other nations. When Copenhagen failed in December 2009, it was not because of a failure to reach any agreements. In fact, we achieved agreements in four major areas \u2014 on national carbon-reduction plans, on transparency requirements, on immediate help for poorer countries to mitigate climate damage, and on a long-term framework for transferring resources from rich to poor. 1 2 3 Next Page \u00bb"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/11\/30\/us\/most-americans-face-lower-tax-burden-than-in-the-80s.html","body":"BELLEVILLE, Ill. \u2014 Alan Hicks divides long days between the insurance business he started in the late 1970s and the barbecue restaurant he opened with his sons three years ago. He earned more than $250,000 last year and said taxes took more than 40 percent. What\u2019s worse, in his view, is that others \u2014 the wealthy, hiding in loopholes; the poor, living on government benefits \u2014 are not paying their fair share.\u201cIt feels like the harder we work, the more they take from us,\u201d said Mr. Hicks, 55, as he waited for a meat truck one recent afternoon. \u201cAnd it seems like there\u2019s an awful lot of people in the United States who don\u2019t pay any taxes.\u201d These are common sentiments in the eastern suburbs of St. Louis, a region of fading factory towns fringed by new subdivisions. Here, as across the country, people like Mr. Hicks are pained by the conviction that they are paying ever more to finance the expansion of government. But in fact, most Americans in 2010 paid far less in total taxes \u2014 federal, state and local \u2014 than they would have paid 30 years ago. According to an analysis by The New York Times, the combination of all income taxes, sales taxes and property taxes took a smaller share of their income than it took from households with the same inflation-adjusted income in 1980. Households earning more than $200,000 benefited from the largest percentage declines in total taxation as a share of income. Middle-income households benefited, too. More than 85 percent of households with earnings above $25,000 paid less in total taxes than comparable households in 1980. Lower-income households, however, saved little or nothing. Many pay no federal income taxes, but they do pay a range of other levies, like federal payroll taxes, state sales taxes and local property taxes. Only about half of taxpaying households with incomes below $25,000 paid less in 2010. The uneven decline is a result of two trends. Congress cut federal taxation at every income level over the last 30 years. State and local taxes, meanwhile, increased for most Americans. Those taxes generally\u00a0take a larger share of income from those who make less, so the increases offset more and more of the federal savings at lower levels of income. In a half-dozen states, including Connecticut, Florida and New Jersey, the increases were large enough to offset the federal savings for most households, not just the poorer ones. Now an era of tax cuts may be reaching its end. The federal government depends increasingly on borrowed money to pay its bills, and many state and local governments are similarly confronting the reality that they are spending more money than they collect. In Washington, debates about tax cuts have yielded to debates about who should pay more. President Obama campaigned for re-election on a promise to take a larger share of taxable income above roughly $250,000 a year. The White House is now negotiating with Congressional Republicans, who instead want to raise some money by reducing tax deductions. Federal spending cuts also are at issue. If a deal is not struck by year\u2019s end, a wide range of federal tax cuts passed since 2000 will expire and taxes will rise for roughly 90 percent of Americans, according to the independent Tax Policy Center. For lower-income households, taxation would spike well above 1980 levels. Upper-income households would lose some but not all of the benefits of tax cuts over the last three decades. Public debate over taxes has typically focused on the federal income tax, but that now accounts for less than a third of the total tax revenues collected by federal, state and local governments. To analyze the total burden, The Times created a model, in consultation with experts, which estimated total tax bills for each taxpayer in each year from 1980, when the election of President Ronald Reagan opened an era of tax cutting, up to 2010, the most recent year for which relevant data is available. The analysis shows that the overall burden of taxation declined as a share of income in the 1980s, rose to a new peak in the 1990s and fell again in the 2000s. Tax rates at most income levels were lower in 2010 than at any point during the 1980s. Governments still collected the same share of total income in 2010 as in 1980 \u2014 31 cents from every dollar \u2014 because people with higher incomes pay taxes at higher rates, and household incomes rose over the last three decades, particularly at the top. 1 2 3 4 Next Page \u00bb"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/11\/30\/business\/global\/talk-of-nationalization-gets-new-life-in-france.html","body":"PARIS \u2014 Has President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande let the nationalization genie out of the bottle?After Mr. Hollande and his industry minister raised this week the possibility that the French state would take over an ArcelorMittal steel factory in a dispute over the foreign company\u2019s plans to close two blast furnaces, union workers in another industry \u2014 shipbuilding \u2014 are calling for the government to seize their foreign employer\u2019s property. The French corporate establishment is bracing for a global backlash, if the nationalization impulse takes hold. On Thursday, unions representing workers at the STX shipyard in Saint-Nazaire, on the Atlantic coast, issued a joint statement demanding that the French government \u201cdo everything possible to keep the shipyard open, even, if necessary, breaking European Union rules.\u201d The shipyard is already partially owned by the French government, but is controlled by STX, a South Korean business group. With business slow in the yard\u2019s mainstay cruise ship building industry, about half of the shipyard\u2019s labor force of 2,100 is now idled. The unions are betting that the current Socialist government, if it controlled the shipyard, would put everyone back to work. \u201cThe door is open, and we want to open it as wide as possible,\u201d Jean-Marc P\u00e9rez, the representative of the Force Ouvri\u00e8re union at the STX shipyard, told the media. The nationalization of the shipyard, where almost half of the 2,000 workers are furloughed on partial pay, \u201cis essential,\u201d he said. An STX spokeswoman in Saint-Nazaire and a spokesman in Seoul both declined to comment on the unions\u2019 demands. The office of the French industry minister, Arnaud Montebourg, did not respond to requests for comment Thursday. There is a potential strategic rationale for nationalizing the STX site in Saint-Nazaire, on the Atlantic coast near the mouth of the Loire River. It is the last large shipyard in France and builds warships for the French navy. Unions have long called for government intervention at the shipyard, given the labor lull. But the dispute with ArcelorMittal, the world\u2019s largest steel company, and based in Luxembourg, is giving new life to their demands. The industry minister, Mr. Montebourg, earlier this week called for a \u201ctemporary nationalization\u201d and resale of the steel plant, at Florange, near the German border, if the company followed through on a planned closure of two blast furnaces there, with the loss of more than 600 jobs. Mr. Hollande, addressing journalists before a meeting Tuesday with the ArcelorMittal boss, Lakshmi Mittal, said that nationalization of the Florange plant might be an option. ArcelorMittal agreed two months ago to give the government until this Saturday to find a buyer. But no investor is thought likely to want only the blast furnaces, which transform iron ore into slab steel. And the company refuses to divest itself of a part of the plant that processes steel for the auto industry. Mr. Montebourg said Wednesday that he had lined up a buyer for the Florange steel site \u2014 which he did not identify \u2014 and said the purchaser was willing to invest \u20ac400 million, or $519 million, to renovate it, assuming it was sold in its entirety. Giles Read, a spokesman in London for ArcelorMittal, said discussions with the French government were continuing, but declined to comment further. Talk of nationalization is being applauded by some in a country where the jobless rate is over 10 percent, and where intervention is not a dirty word. In the early 1980s, the last Socialist president, Fran\u00e7ois Mitterrand, nationalized much of the economy, before later reversing course. Jean-Luc Gironde, a Force Ouvri\u00e8re spokesman in Paris, said the union did not advocate nationalization as a general policy. But \u201cin a case like ArcelorMittal, where the enterprise has been the beneficiary of public funds, why not?\u201d But there has also been a sharp reaction from business leaders. \u201cIf the point is to add pressure and blackmail in the negotiations, it is inadmissible,\u201d Laurence Parisot, president of the Medef employers\u2019 lobby, told RTL television on Thursday. \u201cOur society is built on the basis of property rights,\u201d she added. \u201cTo undermine that principle is scandalous, and it\u2019s expensive.\u201d Le Monde, the center-left French daily, despaired in an editorial this week that Mr. Montebourg had become in effect the government\u2019s chief spokesman on economic matters, overshadowing even Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici. Mr. Montebourg\u2019s statements, including his declaration that \u201cWe don\u2019t want Mittal in France,\u201d the paper said, \u201chave frightened Anglo-Saxon investors and dismayed the Germans,\u201d as they \u201ccan\u2019t understand how we could denigrate companies in our own country.\u201d The Business Standard, a leading Indian business daily, argued that Mr. Mittal, a native of India, \u201chas become a scapegoat for the malaise in France over job losses.\u201d Other Indian commentators have suggested that racism is playing a role in the conflict. Mr. Hollande\u2019s tone has been more measured than that of his outspoken industry minister. Mr. Montebourg comes from the left wing of Mr. Hollande\u2019s Socialist Party, while Mr. Hollande himself is a centrist. Early this month, in fact, Mr. Hollande won kudos from economists by breaking a long-held taboo of the left, acknowledging that France\u2019s high labor costs and strict work rules were holding back the job market. Jean-Christophe Caffet, an economist with Natixis, suggested that Mr. Hollande\u2019s government, which has been less militant than its left wing had hoped, might be using this week\u2019s heated rhetoric as a sop to dissidents on the left to ensure their support in Parliament. \u201cThe government has presented a quite clear course, which is implementing a supply-side policy,\u201d he said. \u201cI can\u2019t rule out bad news,\u201d Mr. Caffet said, \u201cbut I don\u2019t think we\u2019re going back the early 1980s, with big nationalizations.\u201d Choe Sang-hun contributed from Seoul."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/11\/30\/us\/texas-road-tolls-proliferate-as-public-financing-dwindles.html","body":"The first major toll road in Texas, which opened in 1957, was a 30-mile, six-lane stretch of highway between Dallas and Fort Worth. A drive from one end to the other cost 50 cents.By 1977, tolls had generated enough revenue to recoup the cost of the road\u2019s construction, and the tollbooths were dutifully removed. Drivers know the Dallas-Fort Worth Turnpike as Interstate 30. Fast forward 35 years and I-30, while still free, is surrounded by billions of dollars in road projects featuring toll roads or lanes. It is a similar story on a smaller scale in the state\u2019s other urban centers as well as in some communities along the border with Mexico. As public officials across fast-growing Texas look for ways to build more roads in the midst of a lack of public financing, toll revenue or investment from private firms hoping to collect that toll revenue are repeatedly emerging as the antidote. But many critics say charging tolls in Texas has shifted from an if-we-absolutely-must option to the default approach for major road projects. \u201cThe day will surely come when, if you want to get from point A to point B, you\u2019re not going to have a choice but to get on a toll road,\u201d State Senator John Carona, Republican of Dallas, said at a panel discussion at the Texas Tribune Festival in September on transportation financing. \u201cWell then, suddenly, a toll is just another tax. Let\u2019s not kid one another.\u201d Another factor in the current toll boom is Texas\u2019 transportation financing system, which falls far short of the state\u2019s needs. Federal and state gas taxes are the primary revenue source for road construction and maintenance. Despite rising construction costs and the improving fuel efficiency of cars, Texans pay the same 38.4 cents in federal and state taxes per gallon of gas as they did nearly 20 years ago. In recent years, the Texas Department of Transportation has borrowed billions of dollars to finance transportation projects. A 2009 report by an advisory committee said Texas should invest about $4 billion more per year on its current road system just to prevent congestion from worsening. As proposals to raise more transportation revenue have failed to draw sufficient political support, charging a toll is now seen as one of the few viable paths to developing major routes. \u201cIt\u2019s a tool you have to utilize in today\u2019s economic climate with the resources that we have,\u201d Phil Wilson, the executive director of the Texas Department of Transportation, said in September. Mr. Wilson also stressed that various officials from local communities must approve a toll project before it can move forward. During the last six years, Texas has built more than 150 miles of toll roads. Well over 100 miles of additional toll projects are in the works. The Houston and Dallas-Fort Worth areas lead the state in collecting tolls. The Harris County Toll Road Authority and the North Texas Tollway Authority are the country\u2019s ninth- and 10th-largest toll agencies in terms of revenue, collecting $881 million in 2011, according to the International Bridge, Tunnel and Turnpike Association. Michael Morris, transportation director for the North Central Texas Council of Governments, credits tolls for the $14 billion in new road projects under construction in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. \u201cIf you\u2019re the fourth-largest region in the country and you\u2019re growing by one million people every 10 years, you have to do something,\u201d Mr. Morris said. \u201cWhatever money we have now, it has to go to the maintenance of the system. So if we\u2019re going to have to build capacity, we\u2019re going to have to do it with new toll lanes or a new toll road.\u201d Yet toll projects are extending to smaller and poorer parts of Texas like El Paso and Brownsville. In Hidalgo County in South Texas, the three toll road projects in development are viewed as preferable to raising taxes on the community, said Mike Perez, the McAllen city manager. \u201cThe feeling is if you want to use it, you should pay for it,\u201d Mr. Perez said. \u201cThat\u2019s what I see in McAllen. There\u2019s a kind of hesitancy toward \u2018Lets all go together and pay for it so 20 percent can use it.\u2019\u00a0\u201d Adding to the increase in toll projects is interest from the private sector to build and run them. The financing of the original Dallas-Fort Worth Turnpike \u2014 drivers pay tolls only until the bonds issued to finance the road\u2019s construction are paid off \u2014 is now often replaced by comprehensive development agreements designed to last for decades. Cintra, a toll operator based in Spain, is the lead company in three large Texas toll projects, including the state\u2019s first privately operated toll road, a segment of State Highway 130 from Austin to Seguin that opened in October. The terms of all three contracts allow Cintra to collect tolls on the roads for roughly 50 years. Nicolas Rubio, the president of Cintra\u2019s American arm, based in Austin, said contracts for such long periods are the only way companies like his can recoup their large upfront investments. \u201cWhen you really look at these projects, the bulk of the revenues are back-ended, and you need to be patient until you can be able to get back that money,\u201d Mr. Rubio said. He pointed to the LBJ Express, a project that will rebuild parts of Interstate 635 and Interstate 35E in Dallas and add toll lanes. A consortium led by Cintra is providing $2.2 billion in financing for the $2.7 billion project, and will maintain the corridor through 2061 in exchange for a portion of the toll revenue. In 2009, the Texas Department of Transportation estimated that the project would yield $18.1 billion for a private firm over the life of the contract, public records show. The first segment of the LBJ Express is expected to open toward the end of 2013, years earlier than would have been possible without private money, according to the Texas Department of Transportation. Last year, the Legislature gave the department approval to pursue partnerships with private firms on seven road projects. Some business leaders are pushing for the approval of more such agreements while others hope that lawmakers create a more reliable revenue stream for the state\u2019s highway fund. Amid the debate, some communities are proceeding cautiously with their initial forays into collecting tolls. El Paso\u2019s first toll lanes will open next year along part of the C\u00e9sar Ch\u00e1vez Border Highway despite concerns that the area is too poor for the project to draw enough paying drivers. El Paso officials added a clause to the city\u2019s agreement with the Texas Department of Transportation that requires the toll lanes to convert to free ones if, after 15 years, the project is not paying for itself. State Representative Joe C. Pickett, Democrat of El Paso, said the clause ensures that El Paso is not stuck with underused toll lanes while traffic on the road\u2019s free lanes continues to worsen. \u201cIt\u2019s not going to make us any money for a long time,\u201d Mr. Pickett said. \u201cThey\u2019re going to have to at least work on this and make sure it\u2019s something people are going to want to use.\u201d abatheja@texastribune.org"},{"url":"http:\/\/query.nytimes.com\/gst\/fullpage.html?res=9901E3DB113BF93AA15752C1A9649D8B63","body":"The financial industry is obsessed with President Obama's second-term regulatory appointments. Who will be Treasury secretary? Who could head the Federal Housing Finance Administration? But hardly anyone is paying much attention to the Office of Financial Research. This entity was created by the Dodd-Frank Act to conduct independent research on the sweeping risks to the financial system. Ah, right, another group of Washington wonks who will issue reports carrying vague warnings of risks looming sometime in the uncertain future. Yawn. I hadn't paid much attention either. But then I spoke to Ross Levine, an economist and specialist in regulation at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, and I finally got it. The Office of Financial Research is a great idea. And as I grasped it, I felt a minor sense of horror, as when you see a precious ring slip off a finger in slow motion and go down the drain while you are powerless to stop it. The office is looking as if it will be a tool of the financial services industry, instead of a check on it. Its main role is to serve the Financial Stability Oversight Council, providing the systemic risk overseer with data and analysis of where the nukes are buried. But the Office of Financial Research was hobbled from the get-go by a poor design. It is housed in the Treasury Department, while ostensibly being independent of it. It has a small budget. And it has to report to the very regulators it is supposed to report on. This month, it announced its advisory committee. Thirty big names charged with giving the fledgling operation direction and gravitas. But these same people have also compromised it. By my count, 19 of the 30 committee members work directly in financial services or for private sector entities that are dependent on the industry. There are academics, but many of them have lucrative ties to the financial services industry. I noted only one financial industry critic: Damon A. Silvers, the policy director for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. \"Academics with a history of challenging regulators are not there,\" said Anat R. Admati, a finance professor at Stanford and the co-author, with Martin Hellwig, of the forthcoming call to arms, \"The Banker's New Clothes\" (Princeton University Press). She was among several prominent banking critics who had applied but didn't make the cut. The Treasury Department sees it differently. \"We were not looking for critics or proponents. That wasn't the goal,\" said Neal S. Wolin, the Treasury deputy secretary. \"We were looking for people with a range of perspectives who understand keenly the systemic risks in the financial system.\" Mr. Wolin said that the office would be independent despite its home. The argument for being housed in the Treasury Department is that if it were all by its lonesome, brand new and small, it would much easier be squashed like a bug. Maybe. But it's not as if there isn't a precedent for creating a better advisory council: Sheila Bair did it for another regulator, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. That panel, the Systemic Resolution Advisory Committee, has Professor Admati; Paul A. Volcker; John S. Reed, the former co-chief executive of Citigroup and now a prominent banking apostate; and Simon Johnson, the former head economist for the International Monetary Fund and outspoken banking nemesis. Perhaps Professor Admati and Mr. Johnson and Mr. Volcker were busy. The world is teeming with expert critics of Big Banking; they just aren't heard from much in the halls of Washington. The Federal Reserve Banks of Kansas City and Dallas have candidates. The economist Joseph Stiglitz would make a good choice. The Bank of England houses two prominent banking critics, Andy Haldane and Robert Jenkins. Outfits like Better Markets or Demos could nominate people who would give Jamie Dimon some indigestion. Certainly, financiers are not a monolithic lot. Investors often have differing interests from those of banks, and investment banks from commercial banks, and the small from the large. Even in big institutions, there are secret sharers of anti-Wall Street sentiment. And obviously, an advisory committee requires a certain number of experts with real-world experience. Clearly, there is a place for finance professionals. But shouldn't the balance of the committee be tilted in the opposite direction and give greater voice to the critics and the banking skeptics? This is a panel that is supposed to identify giant risks in the system that bankers ignore in their pursuit of profit and bonuses and to spot flaws in regulations that could cost the public and economy trillions. It's not as if the poor bankers don't have a voice in Washington, after all. The bankers have the resources. And they are focused. Bankers are in the trenches all day, fighting regulation. The public only glances at these battles. So why does yet another Washington advisory panel of worthies matter? Mr. Levine has a subtle and fascinating answer. He starts by pointing to the mystery of the home-team advantage in sports, which has long puzzled researchers. It turns out that umpires are biased toward the home team not out of conscious or recognizable bias. Rather, they subconsciously gravitate toward their immediate \"community\" - in this case, the home-field crowd, especially at crucial moments in a game. (Researchers will next study how this appears to have no effect whatsoever on the New York Jets.) To minimize the bias, you can tell the umpires that they are being monitored. Introduce instant replay. With that, you have expanded the community that is watching the umpires to an audience far beyond the home crowd. Mr. Levine believes that the Office of Financial Research could do the same for regulators. If it independently examined and publicized not just systemic risks, but - crucially - the flaws in how the regulators were approaching those risks, that could have the effect of expanding the regulators' community. Regulators, he said, \"operate within financial services industry. They are surrounded by it.\" \"That means that the home-field crowd is the financial services industry,\" he said. \"The public, if it has a ticket at all, is way up in bleachers, and its voice can't be heard.\" The Office of Financial Research is well on its way to barring the gate. Before the crisis, the consensus was that the Office of Thrift Supervision was the regulator most in the pocket of Big Banking. For its efforts, it got shut down as part of the postcrisis regulatory overhaul. \"Now, the title of 'Most Captured' is up for grabs,\" Mr. Johnson said. \"And I think we have a contender.\" This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. PHOTO: Ross Levine, a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, says that the Office of Financial Research can be an effective independent examiner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON\/THE NEW YORK TIMES)"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/11\/29\/opinion\/law-school-is-worth-the-money.html","body":"I\u2019M a law dean, and I\u2019m proud. And I think it\u2019s time to stop the nonsense. After two years of almost relentless attacks on law schools, a bit of perspective would be nice.For at least two years, the popular press, bloggers and a few sensationalist law professors have turned American law schools into the new investment banks. We entice bright young students into our academic clutches. Succubus-like, when we\u2019ve taken what we want from them, we return them to the mean and barren streets to fend for themselves. The hysteria has masked some important realities and created an environment in which some of the brightest potential lawyers are, largely irrationally, forgoing the possibility of a rich, rewarding and, yes, profitable, career. The starting point is the job market. It\u2019s bad. It\u2019s bad in many industries. \u201cBad,\u201d in law, means that most students will have trouble finding a first job, especially at law firms. But a little historical perspective will reveal that the law job market has been bad \u2014 very bad \u2014 before. To take the most recent low before this era, in 1998, 55 percent of law graduates started in law firms. In 2011, that number was 50 percent. A 9 percent decline from a previous low during the worst economic conditions in decades hardly seems catastrophic. And this statistic ignores the other jobs lawyers do. Even so, the focus on first jobs is misplaced. We educate students for a career likely to span 40 to 50 years. The world is guaranteed to change in unpredictable ways, but that reality doesn\u2019t keep us from planning our lives. Moreover, the career for which we educate students, done through the medium of the law, is a career in leadership and creative problem solving. Many graduates will find that their legal educations give them the skills to find rich and rewarding lives in business, politics, government, finance, the nonprofit sector, the arts, education and more. What else will these thousands of students who have been discouraged from attending law school do? Where will they find a more fulfilling career? They\u2019re not all going to be doctors or investment bankers, nor should they. Looking purely at the economics, in 2011, the median starting salary for practicing lawyers was $61,500; the mean salary for all practicing lawyers was $130,490, compared with $176,550 for corporate chief executives, $189,210 for internists and $79,300 for architects. This average includes many lawyers who graduated into really bad job markets. And the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics reports projected growth in lawyers\u2019 jobs from 2010 to 2020 at 10 percent, \u201cabout as fast as the average for all occupations.\u201d It\u2019s true, and a problem, that tuition has increased. One report shows that tuition at private schools increased about 160 percent from 1985 to 2011. Private medical school tuition increased only 63 percent during that period. But, in 1985, medical school already cost four times more than law school. And starting salaries for law graduates have increased by 125 percent over that period. Debt, too, is a problem. The average student at a private law school graduates with $125,000 in debt. But the average lawyer\u2019s annual salary exceeds that number. You\u2019d consider a home mortgage at that ratio to be pretty sweet. Investment in tuition is for a lifelong career, not a first job. There are many ways to realize a satisfactory return on this investment. Even practicing law appears to have paid off over the long term. The graying of baby-boom lawyers creates opportunities. As more senior lawyers retire, jobs will open, even in the unlikely case that the law business doesn\u2019t expand with an improving economy. More opportunity will open to women and minorities, too. As with any industry in transition, changes in the delivery of legal services create opportunities as well as challenges. Creative, innovative and entrepreneurial lawyers will find ways to capitalize on this. The overwrought atmosphere has created irrationalities that prevent talented students from realizing their ambitions. Last spring we accepted an excellent student with a generous financial-aid package that left her with the need to borrow only $5,000 a year. She told us that she thought it would be \u201cirresponsible\u201d to borrow the money. She didn\u2019t attend any law school. I think that was extremely shortsighted, but this prevailing attitude discourages bright students from attending law school. We could do things better, and every law school with which I\u2019m familiar is looking to address its problems. In the meantime, the one-sided analysis is inflicting significant damage, not only on law schools but also on a society that may well soon find itself bereft of its best and brightest lawyers. Lawrence E. Mitchell is dean of Case Western Reserve University\u2019s law school."},{"url":"http:\/\/query.nytimes.com\/gst\/fullpage.html?res=9D02E3D6113BF93AA15752C1A9649D8B63","body":"The field of candidates to run the Securities and Exchange Commission is shifting after a contender dropped out of the race. Mary J. Miller, a senior Treasury Department official, removed her name from consideration in recent days, according to several people briefed on the matter who were not authorized to discuss the selection process. While some Washington insiders had considered Ms. Miller a sensible choice, several people close to her said she was \"not interested\" in the job. With Ms. Miller withdrawing, Sallie L. Krawcheck, a longtime Wall Street executive, has emerged as a potential front-runner. Over the last year, she has become a familiar face in Washington, making the rounds with lawmakers to discuss consumer issues. The White House, which has been holding interviews for the position in recent weeks, is vetting a number of candidates with backgrounds in finance and government. Robert S. Khuzami, the S.E.C.'s enforcement director, is favored by some agency officials. Richard G. Ketchum, chairman and chief executive of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street's internal policing organization, is also a long-shot contender. The search is still in its early stages, and the candidates could change as the White House narrows its choices. Washington and Wall Street have been abuzz with speculation about the next S.E.C. chief since Mary L. Schapiro, the current chairwoman, announced her resignation on Monday. President Obama quickly named Elisse B. Walter, a Democrat who became an S.E.C. commissioner in 2008, as the new chief of the agency. But while Ms. Walter will step into the role on a full-time basis, she has told agency officials that she plans to serve for a short time. The White House, which faces more pressing cabinet-level nominations, is expected to name an S.E.C. successor next year. The president's choice for the job will send a strong message to Wall Street and the broader financial markets. He could select a candidate with a strong regulatory hand and a critical voice to help police the industry. Or the Obama administration could decide on a compromise candidate like Ms. Krawcheck. In addition to having extensive Wall Street credentials, she is known for her independent streak and consumer advocacy efforts. Since leaving Bank of America in late 2011, Ms. Krawcheck, 48, has stepped up her presence in Washington and even hired an aide to help her navigate the political arena, according to people briefed on the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity. Last week, she met with leading members of the Senate Banking Committee, which oversees the S.E.C. It is possible Ms. Krawcheck is being considered for jobs other than head of the S.E.C., these people said. Still, she lacks government experience. Her banking r\u00e9sum\u00e9, too, may prove problematic given the anger of many people in Washington and on Main Street over Wall Street's role in the 2008 financial crisis. Some liberal lawmakers are expected to raise concerns that regulators, including the S.E.C., are taking aim at some of Ms. Krawcheck's past employers. She has been personally named, along with former colleagues, in litigation stemming from her time at Bank of America and Citigroup. Ms. Krawcheck started on Wall Street as an investment banker at Salomon Brothers, and switched a few years later to Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. She made a name for herself as an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, a research firm, where she covered the banking industry and often issued negative calls on firms like Citigroup. In 2001, she was named chief executive of Bernstein, making her one of the top women on Wall Street. A year later, during a scandal on Wall Street, she was hired as head of research and brokerage at Citigroup, a step the bank took to improve its credibility. She worked her way up at Citigroup, becoming chief financial officer and eventually head of the wealth management division. But she left the bank in September 2008 after clashing with top executives who were reluctant to reimburse clients who had lost money on certain Citigroup investments. In 2009, Ms. Krawcheck landed at Bank of America, where she ran the wealth management group. Under her leadership, the unit posted steady results, a point of strength for the then-troubled bank. But Ms. Krawcheck was ousted from Bank of America in 2011 as part of a broader management shake-up. Since then, Ms. Krawcheck has refined her voice as a consumer advocate. On Twitter, she has drawn a significant following with her conversational style and posts on investment issues. She is on the board of Motif Investing, an online brokerage firm geared toward individual investors. She also writes a blog on LinkedIn. One recent dispatch, titled \"What I Learned When I Got Fired (The First Time),\" offered career guidance from her own rocky periods. \"If you haven't been fired at least once, you're not trying hard enough,\" she wrote. \"As the pace of change in business increases, the chances of having a placid career are receding. And if in this period of rapid change, you're not making some notable mistakes along the way, you're certainly not taking enough business and career chances.\" The next head of the S.E.C. faces a challenging agenda. Ms. Schapiro, who stepped down after a difficult four-year run, overhauled the agency and brought it back from the brink. During her tenure, she revamped the enforcement division and replaced the leadership team. But the new chief will have to tackle high-speed trading and complex financial products that have proved tough to monitor. At the same time, the S.E.C. must play catch-up on a series of rule-writing efforts required under the Dodd-Frank Act, the sweeping regulatory overhaul passed after the financial crisis. The agency is also trying to safeguard its rules from Wall Street's legal challenges. \"It's still a very daunting task,\" said Barbara Roper, director of investor protection at the Consumer Federation of America, an advocacy group. This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. PHOTOS: After Mary Miller, top left, declined to be considered for S.E.C. chief, focus turned to candidates like, clockwise from top right, Sallie Krawcheck, Robert Khuzami and Richard Ketchum. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN McDERMID\/REUTERS; MARK LENNIHAN\/ASSOCIATED PRESS; JONATHAN BACHMAN\/REUTERS; NATALIE BEHRING\/REUTERS) (B7)"},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/11\/29\/business\/global\/greece-struggles-again-to-come-up-with-funds.html","body":"ATHENS \u2014 With Greece\u2019s coffers nearly empty, the government said Wednesday that it would have to borrow 10 billion to 14 billion euros to pay for a debt buyback that its international creditors have demanded in exchange for releasing more bailout money to the troubled country.The finance minister, Yannis Stournaras, said the strategy of buying back debt from bondholders at a discount needed to succeed as a matter of \u201cpatriotic duty.\u201d Mr. Stournaras did not say outright that the buyback was a firm requirement for the release of 34.4 billion euros, or $44.5 billion, in bailout money next month, though the International Monetary Fund, one of Greece\u2019s troika of creditors, signaled as much this week. The Greek debt management agency is to disclose details of the buyback next week. Mr. Stournaras said that if the program failed to attract sufficient interest from the banks and insurers that hold the government\u2019s debt, officials had drawn up a \u201cPlan B.\u201d He refused to elaborate. The loans needed to carry out the buyback would come on top of the money that European officials and the I.M.F. committed to release after marathon talks in Brussels this week. The troika has calculated that if successful, the debt buyback, together with other means of debt relief, could help Greece reduce its debt to 124 percent of gross domestic product in 2020 and even further after that, from about 175 percent now. But a number of hurdles remain that could mean delays in reducing Greece\u2019s debt. For one, Athens will also have to persuade bondholders to sell back their debt at a price that is attractive to the government. Bondholders will hold out for as much as they can get. In addition, some of those bondholders are beleaguered Greek banks. The government bonds they hold count as bank capital and pay a high rate of interest, reflecting the risk attached to the debt. Writing down the value of the bonds, and forgoing that capital and income, will eventually leave the banks even worse off than they are now. That may require the troika to send even more aid to Greece in the future to recapitalize the banks, analysts say. As it is, nearly 85 percent of the coming installment of bailout aid has been set aside to shore up Greek banks, which have virtually stopped lending. Since Greece appealed for foreign support to avoid default in April 2010, the troika \u2014 the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the I.M.F. \u2014 have committed to two loan programs worth 240 billion euros. In exchange, three increasingly weak governments in Athens have imposed a raft of austerity measures that have crippled Greek households. European and I.M.F. officials on Tuesday agreed to release about 44 billion euros in aid. Of that, 34.4 billion euros is to be disbursed by Dec. 13. The remaining 9.3 billion euros is to be released in the first quarter of next year on the condition that Greece meets the troika\u2019s targets for adopting austerity measures and fiscal and economic reforms. Mr. Stournaras said the agreement in Brussels \u201ccreates the conditions to keep us in the euro zone and the opportunity to emerge from the vicious cycle of recession and indebtedness.\u201d But he said there was no cause for celebration. \u201cNow the hard part begins,\u201d he said. Niki Kitsantonis reported from Athens and Liz Alderman from Paris."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/11\/29\/world\/africa\/benghazi-violence-beyond-control-of-militias.html","body":"BENGHAZI, Libya \u2014 The killing was not a shock here, in the city where Libyans started their quest to shake off dictatorship and now struggle, nearly two years later, to douse the simmering violence that is a legacy of the revolt.One evening last week, a car screeched down a residential street. Three men stepped out and with startling ease gunned down Faraj Mohammed el-Drissi, the man whose job it was to ensure this city\u2019s security. Mr. Drissi, who had been on the job since October, was among roughly three dozen public servants killed over the last year and a half, including army officers, security agents, officials from the deposed government and the United States ambassador, J. Christopher Stevens. In all the cases, no one has been convicted, and in many, no one has even been questioned. That is unlikely to change anytime soon. Since Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi was killed more than a year ago, Benghazi has in many ways regained its balance, as residents build long-delayed additions to their homes and policemen direct traffic on some streets. But Mr. Drissi\u2019s killing made it hard to ignore a darker rhythm \u2014 one that revolves around killing with impunity. The government is still weaker than the country\u2019s militias, and neither is willing, or able to act. \u201cIt is impossible for members of a brigade to arrest another,\u201d said Wanis al-Sharif, the top Interior Ministry official in eastern Libya. \u201cAnd it would be impossible that I give the order to arrest someone in a militia. Impossible.\u201d The violence was thrown into sharp relief after the September attack on the United States intelligence and diplomatic villas. Libyan and American officials accused militants associated with Libya\u2019s ubiquitous militias, and specifically, members of Ansar al-Shariah. \u201cThe killing of the ambassador brought back the true reality of this insecure state,\u201d said Ali Tarhouni, a former Libyan finance minister who leads a new political party. \u201cIt was a major setback, to this city and its psyche.\u201d Justice itself is a dangerous notion here and throughout Libya, where a feeble government lacks the power to protect citizens or to confront criminal suspects. It barely has the means to arm its police force, let alone rein in or integrate the militias or confront former rebel fighters suspected of killings. \u201cSome had to do with personal grudges,\u201d said Judge Jamal Bennor, who serves as Benghazi\u2019s justice coordinator. But most were like the killing of Mr. Drissi. \u201cThis was a political assassination,\u201d he said. Adding to the feeling of lawlessness are the revelations that foreign intelligence services, like the C.I.A., are active around the country without answering to anyone, people here said. Every day, an American drone circles Benghazi, unsettling and annoying residents. Police officers share Kalashnikovs. The courts are toothless. Libyan and American investigators, faced with Benghazi\u2019s insecurity, are forced to interview witnesses hundreds of miles away, in the capital, Tripoli. And so the government is forced to reckon with the militias, who by virtue of their abundant weapons hold the city\u2019s real power. Men like Wissam bin Hamid, 35, who before the revolution owned an automobile workshop, is now the leader of an umbrella group of former rebel fighters. Some groups, like Mr. Hamid\u2019s, operate with the government\u2019s blessing, while others are called rogue. The distinctions often seem arbitrary, but either way, the militias are effectively a law unto themselves. Mr. Hamid and others insist that they are loyal to the state. Leading political figures said they respected Mr. Hamid but had concerns about many of the other militia leaders, among them hard-line Islamists. The militias are called on for crucial tasks, including safeguarding elections. Mr. Hamid\u2019s militia, a branch of a group called Libya Shield, has been called on to enforce order hundreds of miles away from Benghazi, in towns beyond the government\u2019s reach. The militia has also worked with American officials: they escorted intelligence officers and diplomats away from the besieged villas on Sept. 11, and later, provided protection for American investigators visiting the city in search of evidence in the attack, Mr. Hamid said. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb Osama al-Fitory and Suliman Ali Zway contributed reporting."},{"url":"http:\/\/www.nytimes.com\/2012\/11\/29\/business\/global\/a-bailout-by-any-other-name.html","body":"LONDONBAILOUTS beget more bailouts. That is the cautionary lesson from the latest revamping of Greece\u2019s financial rescue deal, according to some economists. And they warn that unless Europe starts enforcing its own rules against bailouts and big budget deficits, governments will never get serious about putting their financial houses in order. Of course, none of the finance ministers who worked out the new financial terms for Greece in Brussels called it a bailout. But for critics it was precisely that. By reducing interest rates and extending the payback maturities on the 168 billion euros ($217 billion) that European governments have lent Greece so far, those loans will now become barely profitable for the countries that made them. It is the sixth bailout since the European debt crisis exploded in 2009 \u2014 three for Greece and one each for Ireland, Portugal and Spain. And these rescues have taken place despite the fact that the treaty underpinning Europe\u2019s common currency bars bailouts by forbidding one member country from assuming the debts of another. But if a majority of euro zone countries did not consistently flout another treaty principle \u2014 the one limiting a member government\u2019s debt to 60 percent of gross domestic product \u2014 there would not be a euro zone debt crisis in the first place. Greece might be the most glaring violator, but Germany and France are also breaking that rule. Although it buys time for Greece, the latest debt deal has been widely criticized as being overly optimistic in expecting Greece to produce the growth and fiscal discipline needed to bring its debt down to less than 120 percent of gross domestic product after 2020, from 175 percent today. Skeptics also point to Germany\u2019s demand that Greece impose another round of spending cuts in return for this latest dispensation as further proof that the architects of monetary union have decided that the last, best hope for the euro\u2019s survival is to continue subscribing to the principle that punishments and threats from Brussels will keep spendthrift nations from falling into hock. But some economists contend that as long as countries in trouble continue to think that they will be bailed out when they run out of money, there will be scant incentive for them to accede to the demands of the euro zone\u2019s stability and growth pact, which requires countries to keep their debts and deficits at reasonable levels. \u201cThere is an acknowledgment in Brussels and Berlin that the stability pact has not worked because it was not strong enough \u2014 so now they have tried to make it tougher by imposing more punishments,\u201d said Charles Wyplosz, an international economist at the Graduate Institute in Geneva who contends that the latest Greek debt deal is nothing more than another bailout. \u201cBut what they don\u2019t realize is that this will not work as long as local Parliaments remain sovereign.\u201d In a recent paper, Mr. Wyplosz argues that the only way sovereign states will become fiscally responsible over the long run is by truly grasping that Brussels will abide by the founding treaty\u2019s prohibition against countries bailing out one another. He points to the United States as an example. With dozens of states that manage their own fiscal affairs, yet operate comfortably within a federal system, the common currency system in the United States has long been seen as a model by those who seek improvements in euro zone policy. At the root of this success, say proponents of the United States model, is the fact that Washington has not had to rescue a penniless state in the last 150 years despite no law or constitutional provision against a federal bailout. The last time a state went bankrupt was in 1933, when Arkansas stopped paying investors who held its highway bonds. The economist C. Randall Henning, an expert on the topic, has described in detail that, in the early years of the United States, the federal government presided over numerous bailouts, until Congress stopped it in the mid-1840s. For better or worse, American states got the message, and a majority of them have adopted various legal statutes that require them to balance their budgets each year. 1 2 Next Page \u00bb"}]